NECTAR

n. A drink served at banquets of the Olympian deities. The secret of
its preparation is lost, but the modern Kentuckians believe that they come
pretty near to a knowledge of its chief ingredient.

    Juno drank a cup of nectar,
    But the draught did not affect her.
    Juno drank a cup of rye --
    Then she bad herself good-bye.
                                                                  J.G.
%
NEGRO

n. The 'piece de resistance' in the American political problem.
Representing him by the letter n, the Republicans begin to build their
equation thus: "Let n = the white man." This, however, appears
to give an unsatisfactory solution.
%
NEIGHBOR

n. One whom we are commanded to love as ourselves, and who does all
he knows how to make us disobedient.
%
NEPOTISM

n. Appointing your grandmother to office for the good of the party.
%
NEWTONIAN

adj. Pertaining to a philosophy of the universe invented by Newton,
who discovered that an apple will fall to the ground, but was unable to
say why. His successors and disciples have advanced so far as to be able
to say when.
%
NIHILIST

n. A Russian who denies the existence of anything but Tolstoi. The
leader of the school is Tolstoi.
%
NIRVANA

n. In the Buddhist religion, a state of pleasurable annihilation awarded
to the wise, particularly to those wise enough to understand it.
%
NOBLEMAN

n. Nature's provision for wealthy American minds ambitious to incur
social distinction and suffer high life.
%
NOISE

n. A stench in the ear. Undomesticated music. The chief product and
authenticating sign of civilization.
%
NOMINATE

v. To designate for the heaviest political assessment. To put forward
a suitable person to incur the mudgobbling and deadcatting of the opposition.
%
NOMINEE

n. A modest gentleman shrinking from the distinction of private life
and diligently seeking the honorable obscurity of public office.
%
NON-COMBATANT

n. A dead Quaker.
%
NONSENSE

n. The objections that are urged against this excellent dictionary.
%
NOSE

n. The extreme outpost of the face. From the circumstance that great
conquerors have great noses, Getius, whose writings antedate the age of
humor, calls the nose the organ of quell. It has been observed that one's
nose is never so happy as when thrust into the affairs of others, from
which some physiologists have drawn the inference that the nose is devoid
of the sense of smell.

        There's a man with a Nose,
        And wherever he goes
    The people run from him and shout:
        "No cotton have we
        For our ears if so be
    He blow that interminous snout!"

        So the lawyers applied
        For injunction.  "Denied,"
    Said the Judge:  "the defendant prefixion,
        Whate'er it portend,
        Appears to transcend
    The bounds of this court's jurisdiction."
                                                         Arpad Singiny
%
NOTORIETY

n. The fame of one's competitor for public honors. The kind of renown
most accessible and acceptable to mediocrity. A Jacob's-ladder leading
to the vaudeville stage, with angels ascending and descending.
%
NOUMENON

n. That which exists, as distinguished from that which merely seems
to exist, the latter being a phenomenon. The noumenon is a bit difficult
to locate; it can be apprehended only be a process of reasoning -- which
is a phenomenon. Nevertheless, the discovery and exposition of noumena
offer a rich field for what Lewes calls "the endless variety and excitement
of philosophic thought." Hurrah (therefore) for the noumenon!
%
NOVEL

n. A short story padded. A species of composition bearing the same
relation to literature that the panorama bears to art. As it is too long
to be read at a sitting the impressions made by its successive parts are
successively effaced, as in the panorama. Unity, totality of effect, is
impossible; for besides the few pages last read all that is carried in
mind is the mere plot of what has gone before. To the romance the novel
is what photography is to painting. Its distinguishing principle, probability,
corresponds to the literal actuality of the photograph and puts it distinctly
into the category of reporting; whereas the free wing of the romancer enables
him to mount to such altitudes of imagination as he may be fitted to attain;
and the first three essentials of the literary art are imagination, imagination
and imagination. The art of writing novels, such as it was, is long dead
everywhere except in Russia, where it is new. Peace to its ashes -- some
of which have a large sale.
%
NOVEMBER

n. The eleventh twelfth of a weariness.
%
