K

is a consonant that we get from the Greeks, but it can be traced away
back beyond them to the Cerathians, a small commercial nation inhabiting
the peninsula of Smero. In their tongue it was called 'Klatch', which
means "destroyed." The form of the letter was originally precisely
that of our H, but the erudite Dr. Snedeker explains that it was altered
to its present shape to commemorate the destruction of the great temple
of Jarute by an earthquake, circa 730 B.C. This building was famous
for the two lofty columns of its portico, one of which was broken in half
by the catastrophe, the other remaining intact. As the earlier form of
the letter is supposed to have been suggested by these pillars, so, it
is thought by the great antiquary, its later was adopted as a simple and
natural -- not to say touching -- means of keeping the calamity ever in
the national memory. It is not known if the name of the letter was altered
as an additional mnemonic, or if the name was always 'Klatch' and
the destruction one of nature's pums. As each theory seems probable enough,
I see no objection to believing both -- and Dr. Snedeker arrayed himself
on that side of the question.
%
KEEP

v.t.

    He willed away his whole estate,
        And then in death he fell asleep,
    Murmuring:  "Well, at any rate,
        My name unblemished I shall keep."
    But when upon the tomb 'twas wrought
    Whose was it? -- for the dead keep naught.
                                                     Durang Gophel Arn
%
KILL

v.t. To create a vacancy without nominating a successor.
%
KILT

n. A costume sometimes worn by Scotchmen in America and Americans in
Scotland.
%
KINDNESS

n. A brief preface to ten volumes of exaction.
%
KING

n. A male person commonly known in America as a "crowned head,"
although he never wears a crown and has usually no head to speak of.

    A king, in times long, long gone by,
        Said to his lazy jester:
    "If I were you and you were I
    My moments merrily would fly --
        Nor care nor grief to pester."

    "The reason, Sire, that you would thrive,"
        The fool said -- "if you'll hear it --
    Is that of all the fools alive
    Who own you for their sovereign, I've
        The most forgiving spirit."
                                                             Oogum Bem
%
KING'S EVIL

n. A malady that was formerly cured by the touch of the sovereign,
but has now to be treated by the physicians. Thus 'the most pious Edward"
of England used to lay his royal hand upon the ailing subjects and make
them whole --

                    a crowd of wretched souls
    That stay his cure:  their malady convinces
    The great essay of art; but at his touch,
    Such sanctity hath Heaven given his hand,
    They presently amend,

as the "Doctor" in 'Macbeth' hath it.  This useful property of the
royal hand could, it appears, be transmitted along with other crown
properties; for according to "Malcolm,"

                            'tis spoken
    To the succeeding royalty he leaves
    The healing benediction.

    But the gift somewhere dropped out of the line of succession:  the
later sovereigns of England have not been tactual healers, and the
disease once honored with the name "king's evil" now bears the humbler
one of "scrofula," from "scrofa", a sow.  The date and author of the
following epigram are known only to the author of this dictionary, but
it is old enough to show that the jest about Scotland's national
disorder is not a thing of yesterday.

    Ye Kynge his evill in me laye,
    Wh. he of Scottlande charmed awaye.
    He layde his hand on mine and sayd:
    "Be gone!"  Ye ill no longer stayd.
    But O ye wofull plyght in wh.
    I'm now y-pight:  I have ye itche!

    The superstition that maladies can be cured by royal taction is
dead, but like many a departed conviction it has left a monument of
custom to keep its memory green.  The practice of forming a line and
shaking the President's hand had no other origin, and when that great
dignitary bestows his healing salutation on

                        strangely visited people,
    All swoln and ulcerous, pitiful to the eye,
    The mere despair of surgery,

he and his patients are handing along an extinguished torch which once
was kindled at the altar-fire of a faith long held by all classes of
men.  It is a beautiful and edifying "survival" -- one which brings
the sainted past close home in our "business and bosoms."
%
KISS

n. A word invented by the poets as a rhyme for "bliss." It
is supposed to signify, in a general way, some kind of rite or ceremony
appertaining to a good understanding; but the manner of its performance
is unknown to this lexicographer.
%
KLEPTOMANIAC

n. A rich thief.
%
KNIGHT

n.

    Once a warrior gentle of birth,
    Then a person of civic worth,
    Now a fellow to move our mirth.
    Warrior, person, and fellow -- no more:
    We must knight our dogs to get any lower.
    Brave Knights Kennelers then shall be,
    Noble Knights of the Golden Flea,
    Knights of the Order of St. Steboy,
    Knights of St. Gorge and Sir Knights Jawy.
    God speed the day when this knighting fad
    Shall go to the dogs and the dogs go mad.
%
KORAN

n. A book which the Mohammedans foolishly believe to have been written
by divine inspiration, but which Christians know to be a wicked imposture,
contradictory to the Holy Scriptures.
%
