T

the twentieth letter of the English alphabet, was by the Greeks absurdly
called 'tau'. In the alphabet whence ours comes it had the form of the
rude corkscrew of the period, and when it stood alone (which was more
than the Phoenicians could always do) signified 'Tallegal', translated
by the learned Dr. Brownrigg, "tanglefoot."
%
TABLE D'HOTE

n. A caterer's thrifty concession to the universal passion for irresponsibility.

    Old Paunchinello, freshly wed,
        Took Madam P. to table,
    And there deliriously fed
        As fast as he was able.

    "I dote upon good grub," he cried,
        Intent upon its throatage.
    "Ah, yes," said the neglected bride,
        "You're in your 'table d'hotage'."
                                                      Associated Poets
%
TAIL

n. The part of an animal's spine that has transcended its natural
limitations to set up an independent existence in a world of its
own. Excepting in its foetal state, Man is without a tail, a privation
of which he attests an hereditary and uneasy consciousness by the
coat-skirt of the male and the train of the female, and by a marked
tendency to ornament that part of his attire where the tail should be,
and indubitably once was. This tendency is most observable in the female
of the species, in whom the ancestral sense is strong and persistent. The
tailed men described by Lord Monboddo are now generally regarded as a
product of an imagination unusually susceptible to influences generated
in the golden age of our pithecan past.
%
TAKE

v.t. To acquire, frequently by force but preferably by stealth.
%
TALK

v.t. To commit an indiscretion without temptation, from an impulse
without purpose.
%
TARIFF

n. A scale of taxes on imports, designed to protect the domestic producer
against the greed of his consumer.

    The Enemy of Human Souls
    Sat grieving at the cost of coals;
    For Hell had been annexed of late,
    And was a sovereign Southern State.
    "It were no more than right," said he,
    "That I should get my fuel free.
    The duty, neither just nor wise,
    Compels me to economize --
    Whereby my broilers, every one,
    Are execrably underdone.
    What would they have? -- although I yearn
    To do them nicely to a turn,
    I can't afford an honest heat.
    This tariff makes even devils cheat!
    I'm ruined, and my humble trade
    All rascals may at will invade:
    Beneath my nose the public press
    Outdoes me in sulphureousness;
    The bar ingeniously applies
    To my undoing my own lies;
    My medicines the doctors use
    (Albeit vainly) to refuse
    To me my fair and rightful prey
    And keep their own in shape to pay;
    The preachers by example teach
    What, scorning to perform, I teach;
    And statesmen, aping me, all make
    More promises than they can break.
    Against such competition I
    Lift up a disregarded cry.
    Since all ignore my just complaint,
    By Hokey-Pokey!  I'll turn saint!"
    Now, the Republicans, who all
    Are saints, began at once to bawl
    Against _his_ competition; so
    There was a devil of a go!
    They locked horns with him, tete-a-tete
    In acrimonious debate,
    Till Democrats, forlorn and lone,
    Had hopes of coming by their own.
    That evil to avert, in haste
    The two belligerents embraced;
    But since 'twere wicked to relax
    A tittle of the Sacred Tax,
    'Twas finally agreed to grant
    The bold Insurgent-protestant
    A bounty on each soul that fell
    Into his ineffectual Hell.
                                                            Edam Smith
%
TECHNICALITY

n. In an English court a man named Home was tried for slander in having
accused his neighbor of murder. His exact words were: "Sir Thomas
Holt hath taken a cleaver and stricken his cook upon the head, so that
one side of the head fell upon one shoulder and the other side upon the
other shoulder." The defendant was acquitted by instruction of the
court, the learned judges holding that the words did not charge murder,
for they did not affirm the death of the cook, that being only an inference.
%
TEDIUM

n. Ennui, the state or condition of one that is bored. Many fanciful
derivations of the word have been affirmed, but so high an authority as
Father Jape says that it comes from a very obvious source -- the first
words of the ancient Latin hymn "Te Deum Laudamus". In this apparently
natural derivation there is something that saddens.
%
TEETOTALER

n. One who abstains from strong drink, sometimes totally, sometimes
tolerably totally.
%
TELEPHONE

n. An invention of the devil which abrogates some of the advantages
of making a disagreeable person keep his distance.
%
TELESCOPE

n. A device having a relation to the eye similar to that of the telephone
to the ear, enabling distant objects to plague us with a multitude of needless
details. Luckily it is unprovided with a bell summoning us to the sacrifice.
%
TENACITY

n. A certain quality of the human hand in its relation to the coin
of the realm. It attains its highest development in the hand of authority
and is considered a serviceable equipment for a career in politics. The
following illustrative lines were written of a Californian gentleman in
high political preferment, who has passed to his accounting:

    Of such tenacity his grip
    That nothing from his hand can slip.
    Well-buttered eels you may o'erwhelm
    In tubs of liquid slippery-elm
    In vain -- from his detaining pinch
    They cannot struggle half an inch!
    'Tis lucky that he so is planned
    That breath he draws not with his hand,
    For if he did, so great his greed
    He'd draw his last with eager speed.
    Nay, that were well, you say.  Not so
    He'd draw but never let it go!
%
THEOSOPHY

n. An ancient faith having all the certitude of religion and all the
mystery of science. The modern Theosophist holds, with the Buddhists, that
we live an incalculable number of times on this earth, in as many several
bodies, because one life is not long enough for our complete spiritual
development; that is, a single lifetime does not suffice for us to become
as wise and good as we choose to wish to become. To be absolutely wise
and good -- that is perfection; and the Theosophist is so keen-sighted
as to have observed that everything desirous of improvement eventually
attains perfection. Less competent observers are disposed to except cats,
which seem neither wiser nor better than they were last year. The greatest
and fattest of recent Theosophists was the late Madame Blavatsky, who had
no cat.
%
TIGHTS

n. An habiliment of the stage designed to reinforce the general
acclamation of the press agent with a particular publicity. Public
attention was once somewhat diverted from this garment to Miss Lillian
Russell's refusal to wear it, and many were the conjectures as to her
motive, the guess of Miss Pauline Hall showing a high order of ingenuity
and sustained reflection.  It was Miss Hall's belief that nature had not
endowed Miss Russell with beautiful legs. This theory was impossible of
acceptance by the male understanding, but the conception of a faulty
female leg was of so prodigious originality as to rank among the most
brilliant feats of philosophical speculation!  It is strange that in all
the controversy regarding Miss Russell's aversion to tights no one seems
to have thought to ascribe it to what was known among the ancients as
"modesty." The nature of that sentiment is now imperfectly understood,
and possibly incapable of exposition with the vocabulary that remains to
us. The study of lost arts has, however, been recently revived and some
of the arts themselves recovered. This is an epoch of 'renaissances',
and there is ground for hope that the primitive "blush" may be dragged
from its hiding-place amongst the tombs of antiquity and hissed on to
the stage.
%
TOMB

n. The House of Indifference. Tombs are now by common consent invested
with a certain sanctity, but when they have been long tenanted it
is considered no sin to break them open and rifle them, the famous
Egyptologist, Dr.  Huggyns, explaining that a tomb may be innocently
"glened" as soon as its occupant is done "smellynge," the soul being
then all exhaled. This reasonable view is now generally accepted by
archaeologists, whereby the noble science of Curiosity has been greatly
dignified.
%
TOPE

v. To tipple, booze, swill, soak, guzzle, lush, bib, or swig. In the
individual, toping is regarded with disesteem, but toping nations are
in the forefront of civilization and power. When pitted against the
hard-drinking Christians the absemious Mahometans go down like grass
before the scythe.  In India one hundred thousand beef- eating and
brandy-and-soda guzzling Britons hold in subjection two hundred and
fifty million vegetarian abstainers of the same Aryan race. With what
an easy grace the whisky-loving American pushed the temperate Spaniard
out of his possessions! From the time when the Berserkers ravaged all
the coasts of western Europe and lay drunk in every conquered port it
has been the same way: everywhere the nations that drink too much are
observed to fight rather well and not too righteously.  Wherefore the
estimable old ladies who abolished the canteen from the American army
may justly boast of having materially augmented the nation's military
power.
%
TORTOISE

n. A creature thoughtfully created to supply occasion for the following
lines by the illustrious Ambat Delaso:

                          TO MY PET TORTOISE

    My friend, you are not graceful -- not at all;
    Your gait's between a stagger and a sprawl.

    Nor are you beautiful:  your head's a snake's
    To look at, and I do not doubt it aches.

    As to your feet, they'd make an angel weep.
    'Tis true you take them in whene'er you sleep.

    No, you're not pretty, but you have, I own,
    A certain firmness -- mostly you're [sic] backbone.

    Firmness and strength (you have a giant's thews)
    Are virtues that the great know how to use --

    I wish that they did not; yet, on the whole,
    You lack -- excuse my mentioning it -- Soul.

    So, to be candid, unreserved and true,
    I'd rather you were I than I were you.

    Perhaps, however, in a time to be,
    When Man's extinct, a better world may see

    Your progeny in power and control,
    Due to the genesis and growth of Soul.

    So I salute you as a reptile grand
    Predestined to regenerate the land.

    Father of Possibilities, O deign
    To accept the homage of a dying reign!

    In the far region of the unforeknown
    I dream a tortoise upon every throne.

    I see an Emperor his head withdraw
    Into his carapace for fear of Law;

    A King who carries something else than fat,
    Howe'er acceptably he carries that;

    A President not strenuously bent
    On punishment of audible dissent --

    Who never shot (it were a vain attack)
    An armed or unarmed tortoise in the back;

    Subject and citizens that feel no need
    To make the March of Mind a wild stampede;

    All progress slow, contemplative, sedate,
    And "Take your time" the word, in Church and State.

    O Tortoise, 'tis a happy, happy dream,
    My glorious testudinous regime!

    I wish in Eden you'd brought this about
    By slouching in and chasing Adam out.
%
TREE

n. A tall vegetable intended by nature to serve as a penal apparatus,
though through a miscarriage of justice most trees bear only a negligible
fruit, or none at all. When naturally fruited, the tree is a beneficient
agency of civilization and an important factor in public morals. In the
stern West and the sensitive South its fruit (white and black respectively)
though not eaten, is agreeable to the public taste and, though not exported,
profitable to the general welfare. That the legitimate relation of the
tree to justice was no discovery of Judge Lynch (who, indeed, conceded
it no primacy over the lamp-post and the bridge-girder) is made plain by
the following passage from Morryster, who antedated him by two centuries:

        While in yt londe I was carried to see ye Ghogo tree, whereof
    I had hearde moch talk; but sayynge yt I saw naught remarkabyll in
    it, ye hed manne of ye villayge where it grewe made answer as
    followeth:
        "Ye tree is not nowe in fruite, but in his seasonne you shall
    see dependynge fr. his braunches all soch as have affroynted ye
    King his Majesty."
        And I was furder tolde yt ye worde "Ghogo" sygnifyeth in yr
    tong ye same as "rapscal" in our owne.
                                               "Trauvells in ye Easte"
%
TRIAL

n. A formal inquiry designed to prove and put upon record the blameless
characters of judges, advocates and jurors. In order to effect this
purpose it is necessary to supply a contrast in the person of one who is
called the defendant, the prisoner, or the accused. If the contrast is
made sufficiently clear this person is made to undergo such an affliction
as will give the virtuous gentlemen a comfortable sense of their immunity,
added to that of their worth. In our day the accused is usually a human
being, or a socialist, but in mediaeval times, animals, fishes, reptiles
and insects were brought to trial. A beast that had taken human life,
or practiced sorcery, was duly arrested, tried and, if condemned, put to
death by the public executioner.  Insects ravaging grain fields, orchards
or vineyards were cited to appeal by counsel before a civil tribunal,
and after testimony, argument and condemnation, if they continued
'in contumaciam' the matter was taken to a high ecclesiastical court,
where they were solemnly excommunicated and anathematized.  In a street
of Toledo, some pigs that had wickedly run between the viceroy's legs,
upsetting him, were arrested on a warrant, tried and punished. In Naples
and ass was condemned to be burned at the stake, but the sentence appears
not to have been executed. D'Addosio relates from the court records many
trials of pigs, bulls, horses, cocks, dogs, goats, etc., greatly, it is
believed, to the betterment of their conduct and morals. In 1451 a suit
was brought against the leeches infesting some ponds about Berne, and the
Bishop of Lausanne, instructed by the faculty of Heidelberg University,
directed that some of "the aquatic worms" be brought before the local
magistracy. This was done and the leeches, both present and absent,
were ordered to leave the places that they had infested within three
days on pain of incurring "the malediction of God." In the voluminous
records of this 'cause celebre' nothing is found to show whether the
offenders braved the punishment, or departed forthwith out of that
inhospitable jurisdiction.
%
TRICHINOSIS

n. The pig's reply to proponents of porcophagy.

    Moses Mendlessohn having fallen ill sent for a Christian
physician, who at once diagnosed the philosopher's disorder as
trichinosis, but tactfully gave it another name.  "You need and
immediate change of diet," he said; "you must eat six ounces of pork
every other day."
    "Pork?" shrieked the patient -- "pork?  Nothing shall induce me to
touch it!"
    "Do you mean that?" the doctor gravely asked.
    "I swear it!"
    "Good! -- then I will undertake to cure you."
%
TRINITY

n. In the multiplex theism of certain Christian churches, three entirely
distinct deities consistent with only one. Subordinate deities of the
polytheistic faith, such as devils and angels, are not dowered with the
power of combination, and must urge individually their clames to adoration
and propitiation.  The Trinity is one of the most sublime mysteries
of our holy religion.  In rejecting it because it is incomprehensible,
Unitarians betray their inadequate sense of theological fundamentals. In
religion we believe only what we do not understand, except in the instance
of an intelligible doctrine that contradicts an incomprehensible one. In
that case we believe the former as a part of the latter.
%
TROGLODYTE

n. Specifically, a cave-dweller of the paleolithic period, after the
Tree and before the Flat. A famous community of troglodytes dwelt with
David in the Cave of Adullam. The colony consisted of "every one that
was in distress, and every one that was in debt, and every one that was
discontented" -- in brief, all the Socialists of Judah.
%
TRUCE

n. Friendship.
%
TRUTH

n. An ingenious compound of desirability and appearance. Discovery
of truth is the sole purpose of philosophy, which is the most ancient
occupation of the human mind and has a fair prospect of existing with
increasing activity to the end of time.
%
TRUTHFUL

adj. Dumb and illiterate.
%
TRUST

n. In American politics, a large corporation composed in greater part
of thrifty working men, widows of small means, orphans in the care
of guardians and the courts, with many similar malefactors and public
enemies.
%
TURKEY

n. A large bird whose flesh when eaten on certain religious anniversaries
has the peculiar property of attesting piety and gratitude. Incidentally,
it is pretty good eating.
%
TWICE

adv. Once too often.
%
TYPE

n. Pestilent bits of metal suspected of destroying civilization and
enlightenment, despite their obvious agency in this incomparable dictionary.
%
TZETZE (or TSETSE) FLY

n. An African insect ('Glossina morsitans') whose bite is commonly
regarded as nature's most efficacious remedy for insomnia, though some
patients prefer that of the American novelist ('Mendax interminabilis').
%
