CAABA

n. A large stone presented by the archangel Gabriel to the patriarch
Abraham, and preserved at Mecca. The patriarch had perhaps asked the archangel
for bread.
%
CABBAGE

n. A familiar kitchen-garden vegetable about as large and wise as a
man's head.

    The cabbage is so called from Cabagius, a prince who on ascending
the throne issued a decree appointing a High Council of Empire
consisting of the members of his predecessor's Ministry and the
cabbages in the royal garden.  When any of his Majesty's measures of
state policy miscarried conspicuously it was gravely announced that
several members of the High Council had been beheaded, and his
murmuring subjects were appeased.
%
CALAMITY

n. A more than commonly plain and unmistakable reminder that the affairs
of this life are not of our own ordering. Calamities are of two kinds:
misfortune to ourselves, and good fortune to others.
%
CALLOUS

adj. Gifted with great fortitude to bear the evils afflicting another.

    When Zeno was told that one of his enemies was no more he was
observed to be deeply moved.  "What!" said one of his disciples, "you
weep at the death of an enemy?"  "Ah, 'tis true," replied the great
Stoic; "but you should see me smile at the death of a friend."
%
CALUMNUS

n. A graduate of the School for Scandal.
%
CAMEL

n. A quadruped (the 'Splaypes humpidorsus') of great value to the show
business. There are two kinds of camels -- the camel proper and the
camel improper. It is the latter that is always exhibited.
%
CANNIBAL

n. A gastronome of the old school who preserves the simple tastes and
adheres to the natural diet of the pre-pork period.
%
CANNON

n. An instrument employed in the rectification of national boundaries.
%
CANONICALS

n. The motley worm by Jesters of the Court of Heaven.
%
CAPITAL

n. The seat of misgovernment. That which provides the fire, the pot, the
dinner, the table and the knife and fork for the anarchist; the part of
the repast that himself supplies is the disgrace before meat. 'Capital
Punishment', a penalty regarding the justice and expediency of which
many worthy persons -- including all the assassins -- entertain grave
misgivings.
%
CARMELITE

n. A mendicant friar of the order of Mount Carmel.

    As Death was a-rising out one day,
    Across Mount Camel he took his way,
        Where he met a mendicant monk,
        Some three or four quarters drunk,
    With a holy leer and a pious grin,
    Ragged and fat and as saucy as sin,
        Who held out his hands and cried:
    "Give, give in Charity's name, I pray.
    Give in the name of the Church.  O give,
    Give that her holy sons may live!"
        And Death replied,
        Smiling long and wide:
        "I'll give, holy father, I'll give thee -- a ride."

        With a rattle and bang
        Of his bones, he sprang
    From his famous Pale Horse, with his spear;
        By the neck and the foot
        Seized the fellow, and put
    Him astride with his face to the rear.

    The Monarch laughed loud with a sound that fell
    Like clods on the coffin's sounding shell:
    "Ho, ho!  A beggar on horseback, they say,
        Will ride to the devil!" -- and thump
        Fell the flat of his dart on the rump
    Of the charger, which galloped away.

    Faster and faster and faster it flew,
    Till the rocks and the flocks and the trees that grew
    By the road were dim and blended and blue
        To the wild, wild eyes
        Of the rider -- in size
        Resembling a couple of blackberry pies.
    Death laughed again, as a tomb might laugh
        At a burial service spoiled,
        And the mourners' intentions foiled
        By the body erecting
        Its head and objecting
    To further proceedings in its behalf.

    Many a year and many a day
    Have passed since these events away.
    The monk has long been a dusty corse,
    And Death has never recovered his horse.
        For the friar got hold of its tail,
        And steered it within the pale
    Of the monastery gray,
    Where the beast was stabled and fed
    With barley and oil and bread
    Till fatter it grew than the fattest friar,
    And so in due course was appointed Prior.
                                                                  G.J.
%
CARNIVOROUS

adj. Addicted to the cruelty of devouring the timorous vegetarian,
his heirs and assigns.
%
CARTESIAN

adj. Relating to Descartes, a famous philosopher, author of the
celebrated dictum, 'Cogito ergo sum' -- whereby he was pleased to
suppose he demonstrated the reality of human existence. The dictum
might be improved, however, thus: 'Cogito cogito ergo cogito sum' --
"I think that I think, therefore I think that I am;" as close an
approach to certainty as any philosopher has yet made.
%
CAT

n. A soft, indestructible automaton provided by nature to be kicked
when things go wrong in the domestic circle.

    This is a dog,
        This is a cat.
    This is a frog,
        This is a rat.
    Run, dog, mew, cat.
    Jump, frog, gnaw, rat.
                                                             Elevenson
%
CAVILER

n. A critic of our own work.
%
CEMETERY

n. An isolated suburban spot where mourners match lies, poets write
at a target and stone-cutters spell for a wager. The inscriptions following
will serve to illustrate the success attained in these Olympian games:

        His virtues were so conspicuous that his enemies, unable to
    overlook them, denied them, and his friends, to whose loose lives
    they were a rebuke, represented them as vices.  They are here
    commemorated by his family, who shared them.

        In the earth we here prepare a
        Place to lay our little Clara.
                                             Thomas M. and Mary Frazer
        P.S. -- Gabriel will raise her.
%
CENTAUR

n. One of a race of persons who lived before the division of labor
had been carried to such a pitch of differentiation, and who followed the
primitive economic maxim, "Every man his own horse." The best
of the lot was Chiron, who to the wisdom and virtues of the horse added
the fleetness of man. The scripture story of the head of John the Baptist
on a charger shows that pagan myths have somewhat sophisticated sacred
history.
%
CERBERUS

n. The watch-dog of Hades, whose duty it was to guard the entrance
-- against whom or what does not clearly appear; everybody, sooner or later,
had to go there, and nobody wanted to carry off the entrance. Cerberus
is known to have had three heads, and some of the poets have credited him
with as many as a hundred. Professor Graybill, whose clerky erudition and
profound knowledge of Greek give his opinion great weight, has averaged
all the estimates, and makes the number twenty-seven -- a judgment that
would be entirely conclusive is Professor Graybill had known (a) something
about dogs, and (b) something about arithmetic.
%
CHILDHOOD

n. The period of human life intermediate between the idiocy of infancy
and the folly of youth -- two removes from the sin of manhood and three
from the remorse of age.
%
CHRISTIAN

n. One who believes that the New Testament is a divinely inspired book
admirably suited to the spiritual needs of his neighbor. One who follows
the teachings of Christ in so far as they are not inconsistent with a life
of sin.

    I dreamed I stood upon a hill, and, lo!
    The godly multitudes walked to and fro
    Beneath, in Sabbath garments fitly clad,
    With pious mien, appropriately sad,
    While all the church bells made a solemn din --
    A fire-alarm to those who lived in sin.
    Then saw I gazing thoughtfully below,
    With tranquil face, upon that holy show
    A tall, spare figure in a robe of white,
    Whose eyes diffused a melancholy light.
    "God keep you, strange," I exclaimed.  "You are
    No doubt (your habit shows it) from afar;
    And yet I entertain the hope that you,
    Like these good people, are a Christian too."
    He raised his eyes and with a look so stern
    It made me with a thousand blushes burn
    Replied -- his manner with disdain was spiced:
    "What!  I a Christian?  No, indeed!  I'm Christ."
                                                                  G.J.
%
CIRCUS

n. A place where horses, ponies and elephants are permitted to see
men, women and children acting the fool.
%
CLAIRVOYANT

n. A person, commonly a woman, who has the power of seeing that which
is invisible to her patron, namely, that he is a blockhead.
%
CLARIONET

n. An instrument of torture operated by a person with cotton in his
ears. There are two instruments that are worse than a clarionet -- two
clarionets.
%
CLERGYMAN

n. A man who undertakes the management of our spiritual affairs as
a method of better his temporal ones.
%
CLIO

n. One of the nine Muses. Clio's function was to preside over history
-- which she did with great dignity, many of the prominent citizens of
Athens occupying seats on the platform, the meetings being addressed by
Messrs. Xenophon, Herodotus and other popular speakers.
%
CLOCK

n. A machine of great moral value to man, allaying his concern for
the future by reminding him what a lot of time remains to him.

    A busy man complained one day:
    "I get no time!"  "What's that you say?"
    Cried out his friend, a lazy quiz;
    "You have, sir, all the time there is.
    There's plenty, too, and don't you doubt it --
    We're never for an hour without it."
                                                          Purzil Crofe
%
CLOSE-FISTED

adj. Unduly desirous of keeping that which many meritorious persons
wish to obtain.

    "Close-fisted Scotchman!" Johnson cried
        To thrifty J. Macpherson;
    "See me -- I'm ready to divide
        With any worthy person."
    Sad Jamie:  "That is very true --
        The boast requires no backing;
    And all are worthy, sir, to you,
        Who have what you are lacking."
                                                         Anita M. Bobe
%
COENOBITE

n. A man who piously shuts himself up to meditate upon the sin of wickedness;
and to keep it fresh in his mind joins a brotherhood of awful examples.

    O Coenobite, O coenobite,
        Monastical gregarian,
    You differ from the anchorite,
        That solitudinarian:
    With vollied prayers you wound Old Nick;
    With dropping shots he makes him sick.
                                                          Quincy Giles
%
COMFORT

n. A state of mind produced by contemplation of a neighbor's uneasiness.
%
COMMENDATION

n. The tribute that we pay to achievements that resembles, but do not
equal, our own.
%
COMMERCE

n. A kind of transaction in which A plunders from B the goods of C,
and for compensation B picks the pocket of D of money belonging to E.
%
COMMONWEALTH

n. An administrative entity operated by an incalculable multitude of
political parasites, logically active but fortuitously efficient.

    This commonwealth's capitol's corridors view,
    So thronged with a hungry and indolent crew
    Of clerks, pages, porters and all attaches
    Whom rascals appoint and the populace pays
    That a cat cannot slip through the thicket of shins
    Nor hear its own shriek for the noise of their chins.
    On clerks and on pages, and porters, and all,
    Misfortune attend and disaster befall!
    May life be to them a succession of hurts;
    May fleas by the bushel inhabit their shirts;
    May aches and diseases encamp in their bones,
    Their lungs full of tubercles, bladders of stones;
    May microbes, bacilli, their tissues infest,
    And tapeworms securely their bowels digest;
    May corn-cobs be snared without hope in their hair,
    And frequent impalement their pleasure impair.
    Disturbed be their dreams by the awful discourse
    Of audible sofas sepulchrally hoarse,
    By chairs acrobatic and wavering floors --
    The mattress that kicks and the pillow that snores!
    Sons of cupidity, cradled in sin!
    Your criminal ranks may the death angel thin,
    Avenging the friend whom I couldn't work in.
                                                                  K.Q.
%
COMPROMISE

n. Such an adjustment of conflicting interests as gives each adversary
the satisfaction of thinking he has got what he ought not to have, and
is deprived of nothing except what was justly his due.
%
COMPULSION

n. The eloquence of power.
%
CONDOLE

v.i. To show that bereavement is a smaller evil than sympathy.
%
CONFIDANT, CONFIDANTE

n. One entrusted by A with the secrets of B, confided to him by C.
%
CONGRATULATION

n. The civility of envy.
%
CONGRESS

n. A body of men who meet to repeal laws.
%
CONNOISSEUR

n. A specialist who knows everything about something and nothing about
anything else.

    An old wine-bibber having been smashed in a railway collision,
some wine was pouted on his lips to revive him.  "Pauillac, 1873," he
murmured and died.
%
CONSERVATIVE

n. A statesman who is enamored of existing evils, as distinguished
from the Liberal, who wishes to replace them with others.
%
CONSOLATION

n. The knowledge that a better man is more unfortunate than yourself.
%
CONSUL

n. In American politics, a person who having failed to secure and office
from the people is given one by the Administration on condition that he
leave the country.
%
CONSULT

v.i. To seek another's disapproval of a course already decided on.
%
CONTEMPT

n. The feeling of a prudent man for an enemy who is too formidable
safely to be opposed.
%
CONTROVERSY

n. A battle in which spittle or ink replaces the injurious cannon-ball
and the inconsiderate bayonet.

    In controversy with the facile tongue --
    That bloodless warfare of the old and young --
    So seek your adversary to engage
    That on himself he shall exhaust his rage,
    And, like a snake that's fastened to the ground,
    With his own fangs inflict the fatal wound.
    You ask me how this miracle is done?
    Adopt his own opinions, one by one,
    And taunt him to refute them; in his wrath
    He'll sweep them pitilessly from his path.
    Advance then gently all you wish to prove,
    Each proposition prefaced with, "As you've
    So well remarked," or, "As you wisely say,
    And I cannot dispute," or, "By the way,
    This view of it which, better far expressed,
    Runs through your argument."  Then leave the rest
    To him, secure that he'll perform his trust
    And prove your views intelligent and just.
                                                    Conmore Apel Brune
%
CONVENT

n. A place of retirement for woman who wish for leisure to meditate
upon the vice of idleness.
%
CONVERSATION

n. A fair to the display of the minor mental commodities, each exhibitor
being too intent upon the arrangement of his own wares to observe those
of his neighbor.
%
CORONATION

n. The ceremony of investing a sovereign with the outward and visible
signs of his divine right to be blown skyhigh with a dynamite bomb.
%
CORPORAL

n. A man who occupies the lowest rung of the military ladder.

    Fiercely the battle raged and, sad to tell,
    Our corporal heroically fell!
    Fame from her height looked down upon the brawl
    And said:  "He hadn't very far to fall."
                                                         Giacomo Smith
%
CORPORATION

n. An ingenious device for obtaining individual profit without individual
responsibility.
%
CORSAIR

n. A politician of the seas.
%
COURT FOOL

n. The plaintiff.
%
COWARD

n. One who in a perilous emergency thinks with his legs.
%
CRAYFISH

n. A small crustacean very much resembling the lobster, but less indigestible.

        In this small fish I take it that human wisdom is admirably
    figured and symbolized; for whereas the crayfish doth move only
    backward, and can have only retrospection, seeing naught but the
    perils already passed, so the wisdom of man doth not enable him to
    avoid the follies that beset his course, but only to apprehend
    their nature afterward.
                                                    Sir James Merivale
%
CREDITOR

n. One of a tribe of savages dwelling beyond the Financial Straits
and dreaded for their desolating incursions.
%
CREMONA

n. A high-priced violin made in Connecticut.
%
CRITIC

n. A person who boasts himself hard to please because nobody tries
to please him.

    There is a land of pure delight,
        Beyond the Jordan's flood,
    Where saints, apparelled all in white,
        Fling back the critic's mud.

    And as he legs it through the skies,
        His pelt a sable hue,
    He sorrows sore to recognize
        The missiles that he threw.
                                                            Orrin Goof
%
CROSS

n. An ancient religious symbol erroneously supposed to owe its significance
to the most solemn event in the history of Christianity, but really antedating
it by thousands of years. By many it has been believed to be identical
with the 'crux ansata' of the ancient phallic worship, but it has
been traced even beyond all that we know of that, to the rites of primitive
peoples. We have to-day the White Cross as a symbol of chastity, and the
Red Cross as a badge of benevolent neutrality in war. Having in mind the
former, the reverend Father Gassalasca Jape smites the lyre to the effect
following:

    "Be good, be good!" the sisterhood
        Cry out in holy chorus,
    And, to dissuade from sin, parade
        Their various charms before us.

    But why, O why, has ne'er an eye
        Seen her of winsome manner
    And youthful grace and pretty face
        Flaunting the White Cross banner?

    Now where's the need of speech and screed
        To better our behaving?
    A simpler plan for saving man
        (But, first, is he worth saving?)

    Is, dears, when he declines to flee
        From bad thoughts that beset him,
    Ignores the Law as 't were a straw,
        And wants to sin -- don't let him.
%
CUI BONO?

[Latin] What good would that do me?
%
CUNNING

n. The faculty that distinguishes a weak animal or person from a strong
one. It brings its possessor much mental satisfaction and great material
adversity. An Italian proverb says: "The furrier gets the skins of
more foxes than asses."
%
CUPID

n. The so-called god of love. This bastard creation of a barbarous fancy
was no doubt inflicted upon mythology for the sins of its deities.  Of all
unbeautiful and inappropriate conceptions this is the most reasonless
and offensive. The notion of symbolizing sexual love by a semisexless
babe, and comparing the pains of passion to the wounds of an arrow --
of introducing this pudgy homunculus into art grossly to materialize the
subtle spirit and suggestion of the work -- this is eminently worthy of
the age that, giving it birth, laid it on the doorstep of prosperity.
%
CURIOSITY

n. An objectionable quality of the female mind. The desire to know
whether or not a woman is cursed with curiosity is one of the most active
and insatiable passions of the masculine soul.
%
CURSE

v.t. Energetically to belabor with a verbal slap-stick. This is an
operation which in literature, particularly in the drama, is commonly fatal
to the victim. Nevertheless, the liability to a cursing is a risk that
cuts but a small figure in fixing the rates of life insurance.
%
CYNIC

n. A blackguard whose faulty vision sees things as they are, not as
they ought to be. Hence the custom among the Scythians of plucking out
a cynic's eyes to improve his vision.
%
