W

(double U) has, of all the letters in our alphabet, the only cumbrous
name, the names of the others being monosyllabic. This advantage of
the Roman alphabet over the Grecian is the more valued after audibly
spelling out some simple Greek word, like 'epixoriambikos'. Still, it is
now thought by the learned that other agencies than the difference of
the two alphabets may have been concerned in the decline of "the glory
that was Greece" and the rise of "the grandeur that was Rome."
There can be no doubt, however, that by simplifying the name of W (calling
it "wow," for example) our civilization could be, if not promoted,
at least better endured.
%
WALL STREET

n. A symbol for sin for every devil to rebuke. That Wall Street is
a den of thieves is a belief that serves every unsuccessful thief in place
of a hope in Heaven. Even the great and good Andrew Carnegie has made his
profession of faith in the matter.

    Carnegie the dauntless has uttered his call
    To battle:  "The brokers are parasites all!"
    Carnegie, Carnegie, you'll never prevail;
    Keep the wind of your slogan to belly your sail,
    Go back to your isle of perpetual brume,
    Silence your pibroch, doff tartan and plume:
    Ben Lomond is calling his son from the fray --
    Fly, fly from the region of Wall Street away!
    While still you're possessed of a single baubee
    (I wish it were pledged to endowment of me)
    'Twere wise to retreat from the wars of finance
    Lest its value decline ere your credit advance.
    For a man 'twixt a king of finance and the sea,
    Carnegie, Carnegie, your tongue is too free!
                                                         Anonymus Bink
%
WAR

n. A by-product of the arts of peace. The most menacing political
condition is a period of international amity. The student of history who
has not been taught to expect the unexpected may justly boast himself
inaccessible to the light. "In time of peace prepare for war" has a deeper
meaning than is commonly discerned; it means, not merely that all things
earthly have an end -- that change is the one immutable and eternal law
-- but that the soil of peace is thickly sown with the seeds of war and
singularly suited to their germination and growth. It was when Kubla
Khan had decreed his "stately pleasure dome" -- when, that is to say,
there were peace and fat feasting in Xanadu -- that he 

                        heard from afar
    Ancestral voices prophesying war.

    One of the greatest of poets, Coleridge was one of the wisest of
men, and it was not for nothing that he read us this parable.  Let us
have a little less of "hands across the sea," and a little more of that
elemental distrust that is the security of nations.  War loves to come
like a thief in the night; professions of eternal amity provide the night.
%
WASHINGTONIAN

n. A Potomac tribesman who exchanged the privilege of governing himself
for the advantage of good government. In justice to him it should be said
that he did not want to.

    They took away his vote and gave instead
    The right, when he had earned, to _eat_ his bread.
    In vain -- he clamors for his "boss," pour soul,
    To come again and part him from his roll.
                                                       Offenbach Stutz
%
WEAKNESSES

n.pl. Certain primal powers of Tyrant Woman wherewith she holds dominion
over the male of her species, binding him to the service of her will and
paralyzing his rebellious energies.
%
WEATHER

n. The climate of the hour. A permanent topic of conversation among
persons whom it does not interest, but who have inherited the tendency
to chatter about it from naked arboreal ancestors whom it keenly concerned.
The setting up official weather bureaus and their maintenance in mendacity
prove that even governments are accessible to suasion by the rude forefathers
of the jungle.

    Once I dipt into the future far as human eye could see,
    And I saw the Chief Forecaster, dead as any one can be --
    Dead and damned and shut in Hades as a liar from his birth,
    With a record of unreason seldom paralleled on earth.
    While I looked he reared him solemnly, that incadescent youth,
    From the coals that he'd preferred to the advantages of truth.
    He cast his eyes about him and above him; then he wrote
    On a slab of thin asbestos what I venture here to quote --
    For I read it in the rose-light of the everlasting glow:
    "Cloudy; variable winds, with local showers; cooler; snow."
                                                         Halcyon Jones
%
WEDDING

n. A ceremony at which two persons undertake to become one, one undertakes
to become nothing, and nothing undertakes to become supportable.
%
WEREWOLF

n. A wolf that was once, or is sometimes, a man. All werewolves are
of evil disposition, having assumed a bestial form to gratify a beastial
appetite, but some, transformed by sorcery, are as humane and is consistent
with an acquired taste for human flesh.

    Some Bavarian peasants having caught a wolf one evening, tied it
to a post by the tail and went to bed.  The next morning nothing was
there!  Greatly perplexed, they consulted the local priest, who told
them that their captive was undoubtedly a werewolf and had resumed its
human for during the night.  "The next time that you take a wolf," the
good man said, "see that you chain it by the leg, and in the morning
you will find a Lutheran."
%
WHANGDEPOOTENAWAH

n. In the Ojibwa tongue, disaster; an unexpected affliction that strikes
hard.

    Should you ask me whence this laughter,
    Whence this audible big-smiling,
    With its labial extension,
    With its maxillar distortion
    And its diaphragmic rhythmus
    Like the billowing of an ocean,
    Like the shaking of a carpet,
    I should answer, I should tell you:
    From the great deeps of the spirit,
    From the unplummeted abysmus
    Of the soul this laughter welleth
    As the fountain, the gug-guggle,
    Like the river from the canon [sic],
    To entoken and give warning
    That my present mood is sunny.
    Should you ask me further question --
    Why the great deeps of the spirit,
    Why the unplummeted abysmus
    Of the soule extrudes this laughter,
    This all audible big-smiling,
    I should answer, I should tell you
    With a white heart, tumpitumpy,
    With a true tongue, honest Injun:
    William Bryan, he has Caught It,
    Caught the Whangdepootenawah!

    Is't the sandhill crane, the shankank,
    Standing in the marsh, the kneedeep,
    Standing silent in the kneedeep
    With his wing-tips crossed behind him
    And his neck close-reefed before him,
    With his bill, his william, buried
    In the down upon his bosom,
    With his head retracted inly,
    While his shoulders overlook it?
    Does the sandhill crane, the shankank,
    Shiver grayly in the north wind,
    Wishing he had died when little,
    As the sparrow, the chipchip, does?
    No 'tis not the Shankank standing,
    Standing in the gray and dismal
    Marsh, the gray and dismal kneedeep.
    No, 'tis peerless William Bryan
    Realizing that he's Caught It,
    Caught the Whangdepootenawah!
%
WHEAT

n. A cereal from which a tolerably good whisky can with some difficulty
be made, and which is used also for bread. The French are said to eat more
bread 'per capita' of population than any other people, which is natural,
for only they know how to make the stuff palatable.
%
WHITE

adj. and n. Black.
%
WIDOW

n. A pathetic figure that the Christian world has agreed to take humorously,
although Christ's tenderness towards widows was one of the most marked
features of his character.
%
WINE

n. Fermented grape-juice known to the Women's Christian Union as "liquor,"
sometimes as "rum." Wine, madam, is God's next best gift to man.
%
WIT

n. The salt with which the American humorist spoils his intellectual
cookery by leaving it out.
%
WITCH

n. (1) Any ugly and repulsive old woman, in a wicked league with the
devil. (2) A beautiful and attractive young woman, in wickedness a league
beyond the devil.
%
WITTICISM

n. A sharp and clever remark, usually quoted, and seldom noted; what
the Philistine is pleased to call a "joke."
%
WOMAN

n.

        An animal usually living in the vicinity of Man, and having a
    rudimentary susceptibility to domestication.  It is credited by
    many of the elder zoologists with a certain vestigial docility
    acquired in a former state of seclusion, but naturalists of the
    postsusananthony period, having no knowledge of the seclusion,
    deny the virtue and declare that such as creation's dawn beheld,
    it roareth now.  The species is the most widely distributed of all
    beasts of prey, infesting all habitable parts of the globe, from
    Greeland's spicy mountains to India's moral strand.  The popular
    name (wolfman) is incorrect, for the creature is of the cat kind.
    The woman is lithe and graceful in its movement, especially the
    American variety ('felis pugnans'), is omnivorous and can be
    taught not to talk.
                                                       Balthasar Pober
%
WORMS'-MEAT

n. The finished product of which we are the raw material. The contents
of the Taj Mahal, the Tombeau Napoleon and the Granitarium. Worms'-meat
is usually outlasted by the structure that houses it, but "this too
must pass away." Probably the silliest work in which a human being
can engage is construction of a tomb for himself. The solemn purpose cannot
dignify, but only accentuates by contrast the foreknown futility.

    Ambitious fool! so mad to be a show!
    How profitless the labor you bestow
        Upon a dwelling whose magnificence
    The tenant neither can admire nor know.

    Build deep, build high, build massive as you can,
    The wanton grass-roots will defeat the plan
        By shouldering asunder all the stones
    In what to you would be a moment's span.

    Time to the dead so all unreckoned flies
    That when your marble is all dust, arise,
        If wakened, stretch your limbs and yawn --
    You'll think you scarcely can have closed your eyes.

    What though of all man's works your tomb alone
    Should stand till Time himself be overthrown?
        Would it advantage you to dwell therein
    Forever as a stain upon a stone?
                                                             Joel Huck
%
WORSHIP

n. Homo Creator's testimony to the sound construction and fine finish
of Deus Creatus. A popular form of abjection, having an element of pride.
%
WRATH

n. Anger of a superior quality and degree, appropriate to exalted characters
and momentous occasions; as, "the wrath of God," "the day
of wrath," etc. Amongst the ancients the wrath of kings was deemed
sacred, for it could usually command the agency of some god for its fit
manifestation, as could also that of a priest. The Greeks before Troy were
so harried by Apollo that they jumped out of the frying-pan of the wrath
of Cryses into the fire of the wrath of Achilles, though Agamemnon, the
sole offender, was neither fried nor roasted. A similar noted immunity
was that of David when he incurred the wrath of Yahveh by numbering his
people, seventy thousand of whom paid the penalty with their lives. God
is now Love, and a director of the census performs his work without apprehension
of disaster.
%
