I

is the first letter of the alphabet, the first word of the language,
the first thought of the mind, the first object of affection. In grammar
it is a pronoun of the first person and singular number. Its plural is
said to be 'We', but how there can be more than one myself is doubtless
clearer the grammarians than it is to the author of this incomparable dictionary.
Conception of two myselfs is difficult, but fine. The frank yet graceful
use of "I" distinguishes a good writer from a bad; the latter
carries it with the manner of a thief trying to cloak his loot.
%
ICHOR

n. A fluid that serves the gods and goddesses in place of blood.

    Fair Venus, speared by Diomed,
    Restrained the raging chief and said:
    "Behold, rash mortal, whom you've bled --
    Your soul's stained white with ichorshed!"

                                                             Mary Doke
%
ICONOCLAST

n. A breaker of idols, the worshipers whereof are imperfectly gratified
by the performance, and most strenuously protest that he unbuildeth but
doth not reedify, that he pulleth down but pileth not up. For the poor
things would have other idols in place of those he thwacketh upon the mazzard
and dispelleth. But the iconoclast saith: "Ye shall have none at all,
for ye need them not; and if the rebuilder fooleth round hereabout, behold
I will depress the head of him and sit thereon till he squawk it."
%
IDIOT

n. A member of a large and powerful tribe whose influence in human
affairs has always been dominant and controlling. The Idiot's activity
is not confined to any special field of thought or action, but "pervades
and regulates the whole." He has the last word in everything; his
decision is unappealable. He sets the fashions and opinion of taste, dictates
the limitations of speech and circumscribes conduct with a dead-line.
%
IDLENESS

n. A model farm where the devil experiments with seeds of new sins
and promotes the growth of staple vices.
%
IGNORAMUS

n. A person unacquainted with certain kinds of knowledge familiar to
yourself, and having certain other kinds that you know nothing about.

    Dumble was an ignoramus,
    Mumble was for learning famous.
    Mumble said one day to Dumble:
    "Ignorance should be more humble.
    Not a spark have you of knowledge
    That was got in any college."
    Dumble said to Mumble:  "Truly
    You're self-satisfied unduly.
    Of things in college I'm denied
    A knowledge -- you of all beside."
                                                               Borelli
%
ILLUMINATI

n. A sect of Spanish heretics of the latter part of the sixteenth century;
so called because they were light weights -- 'cunctationes illuminati'.
%
ILLUSTRIOUS

adj. Suitably placed for the shafts of malice, envy and detraction.
%
IMAGINATION

n. A warehouse of facts, with poet and liar in joint ownership.
%
IMBECILITY

n. A kind of divine inspiration, or sacred fire affecting censorious
critics of this dictionary.
%
IMMIGRANT

n. An unenlightened person who thinks one country better than another.
%
IMMODEST

adj. Having a strong sense of one's own merit, coupled with a feeble
conception of worth in others.

    There was once a man in Ispahan
        Ever and ever so long ago,
    And he had a head, the phrenologists said,
        That fitted him for a show.

    For his modesty's bump was so large a lump
        (Nature, they said, had taken a freak)
    That its summit stood far above the wood
        Of his hair, like a mountain peak.

    So modest a man in all Ispahan,
        Over and over again they swore --
    So humble and meek, you would vainly seek;
        None ever was found before.

    Meantime the hump of that awful bump
        Into the heavens contrived to get
    To so great a height that they called the wight
        The man with the minaret.

    There wasn't a man in all Ispahan
        Prouder, or louder in praise of his chump:
    With a tireless tongue and a brazen lung
        He bragged of that beautiful bump

    Till the Shah in a rage sent a trusty page
        Bearing a sack and a bow-string too,
    And that gentle child explained as he smiled:
        "A little present for you."

    The saddest man in all Ispahan,
        Sniffed at the gift, yet accepted the same.
    "If I'd lived," said he, "my humility
        Had given me deathless fame!"
                                                          Sukker Uffro
%
IMMORAL

adj. Inexpedient. Whatever in the long run and with regard to the greater
number of instances men find to be generally inexpedient comes to be considered
wrong, wicked, immoral. If man's notions of right and wrong have any other
basis than this of expediency; if they originated, or could have originated,
in any other way; if actions have in themselves a moral character apart
from, and nowise dependent on, their consequences -- then all philosophy
is a lie and reason a disorder of the mind.
%
IMMORTALITY

n.

    A toy which people cry for,
    And on their knees apply for,
    Dispute, contend and lie for,
        And if allowed
        Would be right proud
    Eternally to die for.
                                                                  G.J.
%
IMPALE

v.t. In popular usage to pierce with any weapon which remains fixed
in the wound. This, however, is inaccurate; to imaple is, properly, to
put to death by thrusting an upright sharp stake into the body, the victim
being left in a sitting position. This was a common mode of punishment
among many of the nations of antiquity, and is still in high favor in China
and other parts of Asia. Down to the beginning of the fifteenth century
it was widely employed in "churching" heretics and schismatics.
Wolecraft calls it the "stoole of repentynge," and among the
common people it was jocularly known as "riding the one legged horse."
Ludwig Salzmann informs us that in Thibet impalement is considered the
most appropriate punishment for crimes against religion; and although in
China it is sometimes awarded for secular offences, it is most frequently
adjudged in cases of sacrilege. To the person in actual experience of impalement
it must be a matter of minor importance by what kind of civil or religious
dissent he was made acquainted with its discomforts; but doubtless he would
feel a certain satisfaction if able to contemplate himself in the character
of a weather-cock on the spire of the True Church.
%
IMPARTIAL

adj. Unable to perceive any promise of personal advantage from espousing
either side of a controversy or adopting either of two conflicting opinions.
%
IMPENITENCE

n. A state of mind intermediate in point of time between sin and punishment.
%
IMPIETY

n. Your irreverence toward my deity.
%
IMPOSITION

n. The act of blessing or consecrating by the laying on of hands --
a ceremony common to many ecclesiastical systems, but performed with the
frankest sincerity by the sect known as Thieves.

    "Lo! by the laying on of hands,"
        Say parson, priest and dervise,
    "We consecrate your cash and lands
        To ecclesiastical service.
    No doubt you'll swear till all is blue
    At such an imposition.  Do."
                                                          Pollo Doncas
%
IMPOSTOR

n. A rival aspirant to public honors.
%
IMPROBABILITY

n.

    His tale he told with a solemn face
    And a tender, melancholy grace.
        Improbable 'twas, no doubt,
        When you came to think it out,
        But the fascinated crowd
        Their deep surprise avowed
    And all with a single voice averred
    'Twas the most amazing thing they'd heard --
    All save one who spake never a word,
        But sat as mum
        As if deaf and dumb,
    Serene, indifferent and unstirred.
        Then all the others turned to him
        And scrutinized him limb from limb --
        Scanned him alive;
        But he seemed to thrive
        And tranquiler grow each minute,
        As if there were nothing in it.
    "What! what!" cried one, "are you not amazed
    At what our friend has told?"  He raised
    Soberly then his eyes and gazed
        In a natural way
        And proceeded to say,
    As he crossed his feet on the mantel-shelf:
    "O no -- not at all; I'm a liar myself."
%
IMPROVIDENCE

n. Provision for the needs of to-day from the revenues of to-morrow.
%
IMPUNITY

n. Wealth.
%
INADMISSIBLE

adj. Not competent to be considered. Said of certain kinds of testimony
which juries are supposed to be unfit to be entrusted with, and which judges,
therefore, rule out, even of proceedings before themselves alone. Hearsay
evidence is inadmissible because the person quoted was unsworn and is not
before the court for examination; yet most momentous actions, military,
political, commercial and of every other kind, are daily undertaken on
hearsay evidence. There is no religion in the world that has any other
basis than hearsay evidence. Revelation is hearsay evidence; that the Scriptures
are the word of God we have only the testimony of men long dead whose identity
is not clearly established and who are not known to have been sworn in
any sense. Under the rules of evidence as they now exist in this country,
no single assertion in the Bible has in its support any evidence admissible
in a court of law. It cannot be proved that the battle of Blenheim ever
was fought, that there was such as person as Julius Caesar, such an empire
as Assyria.

    But as records of courts of justice are admissible, it can easily
be proved that powerful and malevolent magicians once existed and were
a scourge to mankind.  The evidence (including confession) upon which
certain women were convicted of witchcraft and executed was without a
flaw; it is still unimpeachable.  The judges' decisions based on it
were sound in logic and in law.  Nothing in any existing court was
ever more thoroughly proved than the charges of witchcraft and sorcery
for which so many suffered death.  If there were no witches, human
testimony and human reason are alike destitute of value.
%
INAUSPICIOUSLY

adv. In an unpromising manner, the auspices being unfavorable. Among
the Romans it was customary before undertaking any important action or
enterprise to obtain from the augurs, or state prophets, some hint of its
probable outcome; and one of their favorite and most trustworthy modes of
divination consisted in observing the flight of birds -- the omens thence
derived being called 'auspices'. Newspaper reporters and certain miscreant
lexicographers have decided that the word -- always in the plural --
shall mean "patronage" or "management"; as, "The festivities were under
the auspices of the Ancient and Honorable Order of Body-Snatchers"; or,
"The hilarities were auspicated by the Knights of Hunger."

    A Roman slave appeared one day
    Before the Augur.  "Tell me, pray,
    If --" here the Augur, smiling, made
    A checking gesture and displayed
    His open palm, which plainly itched,
    For visibly its surface twitched.
    A 'denarius' (the Latin nickel)
    Successfully allayed the tickle,
    And then the slave proceeded:  "Please
    Inform me whether Fate decrees
    Success or failure in what I
    To-night (if it be dark) shall try.
    Its nature?  Never mind -- I think
    'Tis writ on this" -- and with a wink
    Which darkened half the earth, he drew
    Another denarius to view,
    Its shining face attentive scanned,
    Then slipped it into the good man's hand,
    Who with great gravity said:  "Wait
    While I retire to question Fate."
    That holy person then withdrew
    His scared clay and, passing through
    The temple's rearward gate, cried "Shoo!"
    Waving his robe of office.  Straight
    Each sacred peacock and its mate
    (Maintained for Juno's favor) fled
    With clamor from the trees o'erhead,
    Where they were perching for the night.
    The temple's roof received their flight,
    For thither they would always go,
    When danger threatened them below.
    Back to the slave the Augur went:
    "My son, forecasting the event
    By flight of birds, I must confess
    The auspices deny success."
    That slave retired, a sadder man,
    Abandoning his secret plan --
    Which was (as well the craft seer
    Had from the first divined) to clear
    The wall and fraudulently seize
    On Juno's poultry in the trees.
                                                                  G.J.
%
INCOME

n. The natural and rational gauge and measure of respectability, the
commonly accepted standards being artificial, arbitrary and fallacious;
for, as "Sir Sycophas Chrysolater" in the play has justly remarked,
"the true use and function of property (in whatsoever it consisteth
-- coins, or land, or houses, or merchant- stuff, or anything which may
be named as holden of right to one's own subservience) as also of honors,
titles, preferments and place, and all favor and acquaintance of persons
of quality or ableness, are but to get money. Hence it followeth that all
things are truly to be rated as of worth in measure of their serviceableness
to that end; and their possessors should take rank in agreement thereto,
neither the lord of an unproducing manor, howsoever broad and ancient,
nor he who bears an unremunerate dignity, nor yet the pauper favorite of
a king, being esteemed of level excellency with him whose riches are of
daily accretion; and hardly should they whose wealth is barren claim and
rightly take more honor than the poor and unworthy."
%
INCOMPATIBILITY

n. In matrimony a similarity of tastes, particularly the taste for
domination. Incompatibility may, however, consist of a meek-eyed matron
living just around the corner. It has even been known to wear a moustache.
%
INCOMPOSSIBLE

adj. Unable to exist if something else exists. Two things are incompossible
when the world of being has scope enough for one of them, but not enough
for both -- as Walt Whitman's poetry and God's mercy to man. Incompossibility,
it will be seen, is only incompatibility let loose. Instead of such low
language as "Go heel yourself -- I mean to kill you on sight,"
the words, "Sir, we are incompossible," would convey and equally
significant intimation and in stately courtesy are altogether superior.
%
INCUBUS

n. One of a race of highly improper demons who, though probably not wholly
extinct, may be said to have seen their best nights. For a complete
account of 'incubi' and 'succubi', including 'incubae' and 'succubae',
see the "Liber Demonorum" of Protassus (Paris, 1328), which contains much
curious information that would be out of place in a dictionary intended
as a text-book for the public schools.

    Victor Hugo relates that in the Channel Islands Satan himself --
tempted more than elsewhere by the beauty of the women, doubtless
-- sometimes plays at 'incubus', greatly to the inconvenience and
alarm of the good dames who wish to be loyal to their marriage vows,
generally speaking.  A certain lady applied to the parish priest to
learn how they might, in the dark, distinguish the hardy intruder from
their husbands.  The holy man said they must feel his brown for horns;
but Hugo is ungallant enough to hint a doubt of the efficacy of the
test.
%
INCUMBENT

n. A person of the liveliest interest to the outcumbents.
%
INDECISION

n. The chief element of success; "for whereas," saith Sir
Thomas Brewbold, "there is but one way to do nothing and divers way
to do something, whereof, to a surety, only one is the right way, it followeth
that he who from indecision standeth still hath not so many chances of
going astray as he who pusheth forwards" -- a most clear and satisfactory
exposition on the matter.

    "Your prompt decision to attack," said Genera Grant on a certain
occasion to General Gordon Granger, "was admirable; you had but five
minutes to make up your mind in."
    "Yes, sir," answered the victorious subordinate, "it is a great
thing to be know exactly what to do in an emergency.  When in doubt
whether to attack or retreat I never hesitate a moment -- I toss us a
copper."
    "Do you mean to say that's what you did this time?"
    "Yes, General; but for Heaven's sake don't reprimand me:  I
disobeyed the coin."
%
INDIFFERENT

adj. Imperfectly sensible to distinctions among things.

    "You tiresome man!" cried Indolentio's wife,
    "You've grown indifferent to all in life."
    "Indifferent?" he drawled with a slow smile;
    "I would be, dear, but it is not worth while."
                                                     Apuleius M. Gokul
%
INDIGESTION

n. A disease which the patient and his friends frequently mistake for
deep religious conviction and concern for the salvation of mankind. As
the simple Red Man of the western wild put it, with, it must be confessed,
a certain force: "Plenty well, no pray; big bellyache, heap God."
%
INDISCRETION

n. The guilt of woman.
%
INEXPEDIENT

adj. Not calculated to advance one's interests.
%
INFANCY

n. The period of our lives when, according to Wordsworth, "Heaven
lies about us." The world begins lying about us pretty soon afterward.
%
INFERIAE

n. [Latin] Among the Greeks and Romans, sacrifices for propitation
of the 'Dii Manes', or souls of the dead heroes; for the pious ancients
could not invent enough gods to satisfy their spiritual needs, and had
to have a number of makeshift deities, or, as a sailor might say, jury-gods,
which they made out of the most unpromising materials. It was while sacrificing
a bullock to the spirit of Agamemnon that Laiaides, a priest of Aulis,
was favored with an audience of that illustrious warrior's shade, who prophetically
recounted to him the birth of Christ and the triumph of Christianity, giving
him also a rapid but tolerably complete review of events down to the reign
of Saint Louis. The narrative ended abruptly at the point, owing to the
inconsiderate crowing of a cock, which compelled the ghosted King of Men
to scamper back to Hades. There is a fine mediaeval flavor to this story,
and as it has not been traced back further than Pere Brateille, a pious
but obscure writer at the court of Saint Louis, we shall probably not err
on the side of presumption in considering it apocryphal, though Monsignor
Capel's judgment of the matter might be different; and to that I bow --
wow.
%
INFIDEL

n. In New York, one who does not believe in the Christian religion;
in Constantinople, one who does. (See GIAOUR.) A kind of scoundrel imperfectly
reverent of, and niggardly contributory to, divines, ecclesiastics, popes,
parsons, canons, monks, mollahs, voodoos, presbyters, hierophants, prelates,
obeah-men, abbes, nuns, missionaries, exhorters, deacons, friars, hadjis,
high-priests, muezzins, brahmins, medicine-men, confessors, eminences,
elders, primates, prebendaries, pilgrims, prophets, imaums, beneficiaries,
clerks, vicars-choral, archbishops, bishops, abbots, priors, preachers,
padres, abbotesses, caloyers, palmers, curates, patriarchs, bonezs, santons,
beadsmen, canonesses, residentiaries, diocesans, deans, subdeans, rural
deans, abdals, charm-sellers, archdeacons, hierarchs, class-leaders, incumbents,
capitulars, sheiks, talapoins, postulants, scribes, gooroos, precentors,
beadles, fakeers, sextons, reverences, revivalists, cenobites, perpetual
curates, chaplains, mudjoes, readers, novices, vicars, pastors, rabbis,
ulemas, lamas, sacristans, vergers, dervises, lectors, church wardens,
cardinals, prioresses, suffragans, acolytes, rectors, cures, sophis, mutifs
and pumpums.
%
INFLUENCE

n. In politics, a visionary 'quo' given in exchange for a substantial 'quid'.
%
INFALAPSARIAN

n. One who ventures to believe that Adam need not have sinned unless
he had a mind to -- in opposition to the Supralapsarians, who hold that
that luckless person's fall was decreed from the beginning. Infralapsarians
are sometimes called Sublapsarians without material effect upon the importance
and lucidity of their views about Adam.

    Two theologues once, as they wended their way
    To chapel, engaged in colloquial fray --
    An earnest logomachy, bitter as gall,
    Concerning poor Adam and what made him fall.
    "'Twas Predestination," cried one -- "for the Lord
    Decreed he should fall of his own accord."
    "Not so -- 'twas Free will," the other maintained,
    "Which led him to choose what the Lord had ordained."
    So fierce and so fiery grew the debate
    That nothing but bloodshed their dudgeon could sate;
    So off flew their cassocks and caps to the ground
    And, moved by the spirit, their hands went round.
    Ere either had proved his theology right
    By winning, or even beginning, the fight,
    A gray old professor of Latin came by,
    A staff in his hand and a scowl in his eye,
    And learning the cause of their quarrel (for still
    As they clumsily sparred they disputed with skill
    Of foreordination freedom of will)
    Cried:  "Sirrahs! this reasonless warfare compose:
    Atwixt ye's no difference worthy of blows.
    The sects ye belong to -- I'm ready to swear
    Ye wrongly interpret the names that they bear.
    _You_ -- Infralapsarian son of a clown! --
    Should only contend that Adam slipped down;
    While _you_ -- you Supralapsarian pup! --
    Should nothing aver but that Adam slipped up.
    It's all the same whether up or down
    You slip on a peel of banana brown.
    Even Adam analyzed not his blunder,
    But thought he had slipped on a peal of thunder!
                                                                  G.J.
%
INGRATE

n. One who receives a benefit from another, or is otherwise an object
of charity.

    "All men are ingrates," sneered the cynic.  "Nay,"
        The good philanthropist replied;
    "I did great service to a man one day
    Who never since has cursed me to repay,
                Nor vilified."

    "Ho!" cried the cynic, "lead me to him straight --
        With veneration I am overcome,
    And fain would have his blessing."  "Sad your fate --
    He cannot bless you, for I grieve to state
                This man is dumb."
                                                            Ariel Selp
%
INJURY

n. An offense next in degree of enormity to a slight.
%
INJUSTICE

n. A burden which of all those that we load upon others and carry ourselves
is lightest in the hands and heaviest upon the back.
%
INK

n. A villainous compound of tannogallate of iron, gum-arabic and water,
chiefly used to facilitate the infection of idiocy and promote intellectual
crime. The properties of ink are peculiar and contradictory: it may be
used to make reputations and unmake them; to blacken them and to make them
white; but it is most generally and acceptably employed as a mortar to
bind together the stones of an edifice of fame, and as a whitewash to conceal
afterward the rascal quality of the material. There are men called journalists
who have established ink baths which some persons pay money to get into,
others to get out of. Not infrequently it occurs that a person who has
paid to get in pays twice as much to get out.
%
INNATE

adj. Natural, inherent -- as innate ideas, that is to say, ideas that
we are born with, having had them previously imparted to us. The doctrine
of innate ideas is one of the most admirable faiths of philosophy, being
itself an innate idea and therefore inaccessible to disproof, though Locke
foolishly supposed himself to have given it "a black eye." Among
innate ideas may be mentioned the belief in one's ability to conduct a
newspaper, in the greatness of one's country, in the superiority of one's
civilization, in the importance of one's personal affairs and in the interesting
nature of one's diseases.
%
IN'ARDS

n. The stomach, heart, soul and other bowels. Many eminent investigators
do not class the soul as an in'ard, but that acute observer and renowned
authority, Dr. Gunsaulus, is persuaded that the mysterious organ known
as the spleen is nothing less than our important part. To the contrary,
Professor Garrett P. Servis holds that man's soul is that prolongation
of his spinal marrow which forms the pith of his no tail; and for demonstration
of his faith points confidently to the fact that no tailed animals have
no souls. Concerning these two theories, it is best to suspend judgment
by believing both.
%
INSCRIPTION

n. Something written on another thing. Inscriptions are of many kinds,
but mostly memorial, intended to commemorate the fame of some illustrious
person and hand down to distant ages the record of his services and virtues.
To this class of inscriptions belongs the name of John Smith, penciled
on the Washington monument. Following are examples of memorial inscriptions
on tombstones: (See EPITAPH.)

    "In the sky my soul is found,
    And my body in the ground.
    By and by my body'll rise
    To my spirit in the skies,
    Soaring up to Heaven's gate.
            1878."

    "Sacred to the memory of Jeremiah Tree.  Cut down May 9th, 1862,
aged 27 yrs. 4 mos. and 12 ds.  Indigenous."

        "Affliction sore long time she boar,
            Phisicians was in vain,
        Till Deth released the dear deceased
            And left her a remain.
    Gone to join Ananias in the regions of bliss."

    "The clay that rests beneath this stone
    As Silas Wood was widely known.
    Now, lying here, I ask what good
    It was to let me be S. Wood.
    O Man, let not ambition trouble you,
    Is the advice of Silas W."

    "Richard Haymon, of Heaven.  Fell to Earth Jan. 20, 1807, and had
the dust brushed off him Oct. 3, 1874."
%
INSECTIVORA

n.

    "See," cries the chorus of admiring preachers,
    "How Providence provides for all His creatures!"
    "His care," the gnat said, "even the insects follows:
    For us He has provided wrens and swallows."
                                                         Sempen Railey
%
INSURANCE

n. An ingenious modern game of chance in which the player is permitted
to enjoy the comfortable conviction that he is beating the man who keeps
the table.

    INSURANCE AGENT:  My dear sir, that is a fine house -- pray let me
        insure it.

    HOUSE OWNER:  With pleasure.  Please make the annual premium so
        low that by the time when, according to the tables of your
        actuary, it will probably be destroyed by fire I will have
        paid you considerably less than the face of the policy.

    INSURANCE AGENT:  O dear, no -- we could not afford to do that.
        We must fix the premium so that you will have paid more.

    HOUSE OWNER:  How, then, can _I_ afford _that_?

    INSURANCE AGENT:  Why, your house may burn down at any time.
        There was Smith's house, for example, which --

    HOUSE OWNER:  Spare me -- there were Brown's house, on the
        contrary, and Jones's house, and Robinson's house, which --

    INSURANCE AGENT:  Spare _me_!

    HOUSE OWNER:  Let us understand each other.  You want me to pay
        you money on the supposition that something will occur
        previously to the time set by yourself for its occurrence.  In
        other words, you expect me to bet that my house will not last
        so long as you say that it will probably last.

    INSURANCE AGENT:  But if your house burns without insurance it
        will be a total loss.

    HOUSE OWNER:  Beg your pardon -- by your own actuary's tables I
        shall probably have saved, when it burns, all the premiums I
        would otherwise have paid to you -- amounting to more than the
        face of the policy they would have bought.  But suppose it to
        burn, uninsured, before the time upon which your figures are
        based.  If I could not afford that, how could you if it were
        insured?

    INSURANCE AGENT:  O, we should make ourselves whole from our
        luckier ventures with other clients.  Virtually, they pay your
        loss.

    HOUSE OWNER:  And virtually, then, don't I help to pay their
        losses?  Are not their houses as likely as mine to burn before
        they have paid you as much as you must pay them?  The case
        stands this way:  you expect to take more money from your
        clients than you pay to them, do you not?

    INSURANCE AGENT:  Certainly; if we did not --

    HOUSE OWNER:  I would not trust you with my money.  Very well
        then.  If it is _certain_, with reference to the whole body of
        your clients, that they lose money on you it is _probable_,
        with reference to any one of them, that _he_ will.  It is
        these individual probabilities that make the aggregate
        certainty.

    INSURANCE AGENT:  I will not deny it -- but look at the figures in
        this pamph --

    HOUSE OWNER:  Heaven forbid!

    INSURANCE AGENT:  You spoke of saving the premiums which you would
        otherwise pay to me.  Will you not be more likely to squander
        them?  We offer you an incentive to thrift.

    HOUSE OWNER:  The willingness of A to take care of B's money is
        not peculiar to insurance, but as a charitable institution you
        command esteem.  Deign to accept its expression from a
        Deserving Object.
%
INSURRECTION

n. An unsuccessful revolution. Disaffection's failure to substitute
misrule for bad government.
%
INTENTION

n. The mind's sense of the prevalence of one set of influences over
another set; an effect whose cause is the imminence, immediate or remote,
of the performance of an involuntary act.
%
INTERPRETER

n. One who enables two persons of different languages to understand
each other by repeating to each what it would have been to the interpreter's
advantage for the other to have said.
%
INTERREGNUM

n. The period during which a monarchical country is governed by a warm
spot on the cushion of the throne. The experiment of letting the spot grow
cold has commonly been attended by most unhappy results from the zeal of
many worthy persons to make it warm again.
%
INTIMACY

n. A relation into which fools are providentially drawn for their mutual
destruction.

    Two Seidlitz powders, one in blue
    And one in white, together drew
    And having each a pleasant sense
    Of t'other powder's excellence,
    Forsook their jackets for the snug
    Enjoyment of a common mug.
    So close their intimacy grew
    One paper would have held the two.
    To confidences straight they fell,
    Less anxious each to hear than tell;
    Then each remorsefully confessed
    To all the virtues he possessed,
    Acknowledging he had them in
    So high degree it was a sin.
    The more they said, the more they felt
    Their spirits with emotion melt,
    Till tears of sentiment expressed
    Their feelings.  Then they effervesced!
    So Nature executes her feats
    Of wrath on friends and sympathetes
    The good old rule who don't apply,
    That you are you and I am I.
%
INTRODUCTION

n. A social ceremony invented by the devil for the gratification of
his servants and the plaguing of his enemies. The introduction attains
its most malevolent development in this century, being, indeed, closely
related to our political system. Every American being the equal of every
other American, it follows that everybody has the right to know everybody
else, which implies the right to introduce without request or permission.
The Declaration of Independence should have read thus:

        "We hold these truths to be self-evident:  that all men are
    created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain
    inalienable rights; that among these are life, and the right to
    make that of another miserable by thrusting upon him an
    incalculable quantity of acquaintances; liberty, particularly the
    liberty to introduce persons to one another without first
    ascertaining if they are not already acquainted as enemies; and
    the pursuit of another's happiness with a running pack of
    strangers."
%
INVENTOR

n. A person who makes an ingenious arrangement of wheels, levers and
springs, and believes it civilization.
%
IRRELIGION

n. The principal one of the great faiths of the world.
%
ITCH

n. The patriotism of a Scotchman.
%
