BAAL

n. An old deity formerly much worshiped under various names. As Baal
he was popular with the Phoenicians; as Belus or Bel he had the honor
to be served by the priest Berosus, who wrote the famous account of the
Deluge; as Babel he had a tower partly erected to his glory on the Plain
of Shinar.  From Babel comes our English word "babble." Under whatever
name worshiped, Baal is the Sun-god. As Beelzebub he is the god of flies,
which are begotten of the sun's rays on the stagnant water. In Physicia
Baal is still worshiped as Bolus, and as Belly he is adored and served
with abundant sacrifice by the priests of Guttledom.
%
BABE or BABY

n. A misshapen creature of no particular age, sex, or condition, chiefly
remarkable for the violence of the sympathies and antipathies it excites
in others, itself without sentiment or emotion. There have been famous
babes; for example, little Moses, from whose adventure in the bulrushes
the Egyptian hierophants of seven centuries before doubtless derived their
idle tale of the child Osiris being preserved on a floating lotus leaf.

            Ere babes were invented
            The girls were contended.
            Now man is tormented
    Until to buy babes he has squandered
    His money.  And so I have pondered
            This thing, and thought may be
            'T were better that Baby
    The First had been eagled or condored.
                                                               Ro Amil
%
BACCHUS

n. A convenient deity invented by the ancients as an excuse for getting
drunk.

    Is public worship, then, a sin,
        That for devotions paid to Bacchus
    The lictors dare to run us in,
        And resolutely thump and whack us?
                                                                Jorace
%
BACK

n. That part of your friend which it is your privilege to contemplate
in your adversity.
%
BACKBITE

v.t. To speak of a man as you find him when he can't find you.
%
BAIT

n. A preparation that renders the hook more palatable. The best kind
is beauty.
%
BAPTISM

n. A sacred rite of such efficacy that he who finds himself in heaven
without having undergone it will be unhappy forever. It is performed
with water in two ways -- by immersion, or plunging, and by aspersion,
or sprinkling.

    But whether the plan of immersion
    Is better than simple aspersion
        Let those immersed
        And those aspersed
    Decide by the Authorized Version,
    And by matching their agues tertian.
                                                                  G.J.
%
BAROMETER

n. An ingenious instrument which indicates what kind of weather we
are having.
%
BARRACK

n. A house in which soldiers enjoy a portion of that of which it is
their business to deprive others.
%
BASILISK

n. The cockatrice. A sort of serpent hatched form the egg of a cock.
The basilisk had a bad eye, and its glance was fatal. Many infidels deny
this creature's existence, but Semprello Aurator saw and handled one that
had been blinded by lightning as a punishment for having fatally gazed
on a lady of rank whom Jupiter loved. Juno afterward restored the reptile's
sight and hid it in a cave. Nothing is so well attested by the ancients
as the existence of the basilisk, but the cocks have stopped laying.
%
BASTINADO

n. The act of walking on wood without exertion.
%
BATH

n. A kind of mystic ceremony substituted for religious worship, with
what spiritual efficacy has not been determined.

    The man who taketh a steam bath
    He loseth all the skin he hath,
    And, for he's boiled a brilliant red,
    Thinketh to cleanliness he's wed,
    Forgetting that his lungs he's soiling
    With dirty vapors of the boiling.
                                                          Richard Gwow
%
BATTLE

n. A method of untying with the teeth of a political knot that would
not yield to the tongue.
%
BEARD

n. The hair that is commonly cut off by those who justly execrate the
absurd Chinese custom of shaving the head.
%
BEAUTY

n. The power by which a woman charms a lover and terrifies a husband.
%
BEFRIEND

v.t. To make an ingrate.
%
BEG

v. To ask for something with an earnestness proportioned to the belief
that it will not be given.

    Who is that, father?

                          A mendicant, child,
    Haggard, morose, and unaffable -- wild!
    See how he glares through the bars of his cell!
    With Citizen Mendicant all is not well.

    Why did they put him there, father?

                                         Because
    Obeying his belly he struck at the laws.

    His belly?

                Oh, well, he was starving, my boy --
    A state in which, doubtless, there's little of joy.
    No bite had he eaten for days, and his cry
    Was "Bread!" ever "Bread!"

                                What's the matter with pie?

    With little to wear, he had nothing to sell;
    To beg was unlawful -- improper as well.

    Why didn't he work?

                         He would even have done that,
    But men said:  "Get out!" and the State remarked:  "Scat!"
    I mention these incidents merely to show
    That the vengeance he took was uncommonly low.
    Revenge, at the best, is the act of a Siou,
    But for trifles --

                        Pray what did bad Mendicant do?

    Stole two loaves of bread to replenish his lack
    And tuck out the belly that clung to his back.

    Is that _all_ father dear?

                                There's little to tell:
    They sent him to jail, and they'll send him to -- well,
    The company's better than here we can boast,
    And there's --

                    Bread for the needy, dear father?

                                                       Um -- toast.

                                                              Atka Mip
%
BEGGAR

n. One who has relied on the assistance of his friends.
%
BEHAVIOR

n. Conduct, as determined, not by principle, but by breeding. The word
seems to be somewhat loosely used in Dr. Jamrach Holobom's translation
of the following lines from the "Dies Irae":

        Recordare, Jesu pie,
        Quod sum causa tuae viae.
        Ne me perdas illa die.

    Pray remember, sacred Savior,
    Whose the thoughtless hand that gave your
    Death-blow.  Pardon such behavior.
%
BELLADONNA

n. In Italian a beautiful lady; in English a deadly poison. A striking
example of the essential identity of the two tongues.
%
BENEDICTINES

n. An order of monks otherwise known as black friars.

    She thought it a crow, but it turn out to be
        A monk of St. Benedict croaking a text.
    "Here's one of an order of cooks," said she --
        "Black friars in this world, fried black in the next."
                                   "The Devil on Earth" (London, 1712)
%
BENEFACTOR

n. One who makes heavy purchases of ingratitude, without, however,
materially affecting the price, which is still within the means of all.
%
BERENICE'S HAIR

n. A constellation ("Coma Berenices") named in honor of one who
sacrificed her hair to save her husband.

    Her locks an ancient lady gave
    Her loving husband's life to save;
    And men -- they honored so the dame --
    Upon some stars bestowed her name.

    But to our modern married fair,
    Who'd give their lords to save their hair,
    No stellar recognition's given.
    There are not stars enough in heaven.
                                                                  G.J.
%
BIGAMY

n. A mistake in taste for which the wisdom of the future will adjudge
a punishment called trigamy.
%
BIGOT

n. One who is obstinately and zealously attached to an opinion that
you do not entertain.
%
BILLINGSGATE

n. The invective of an opponent.
%
BIRTH

n. The first and direst of all disasters. As to the nature of it there
appears to be no uniformity. Castor and Pollux were born from the egg.
Pallas came out of a skull. Galatea was once a block of stone. Peresilis,
who wrote in the tenth century, avers that he grew up out of the ground
where a priest had spilled holy water. It is known that Arimaxus was derived
from a hole in the earth, made by a stroke of lightning. Leucomedon was
the son of a cavern in Mount Aetna, and I have myself seen a man come out
of a wine cellar.
%
BLACKGUARD

n. A man whose qualities, prepared for display like a box of berries
in a market -- the fine ones on top -- have been opened on the wrong side.
An inverted gentleman.
%
BLANK-VERSE

n. Unrhymed iambic pentameters -- the most difficult kind of English
verse to write acceptably; a kind, therefore, much affected by those who
cannot acceptably write any kind.
%
BODY-SNATCHER

n. A robber of grave-worms. One who supplies the young physicians with
that with which the old physicians have supplied the undertaker. The hyena.

    "One night," a doctor said, "last fall,
    I and my comrades, four in all,
        When visiting a graveyard stood
    Within the shadow of a wall.

    "While waiting for the moon to sink
    We saw a wild hyena slink
        About a new-made grave, and then
    Begin to excavate its brink!

    "Shocked by the horrid act, we made
    A sally from our ambuscade,
        And, falling on the unholy beast,
    Dispatched him with a pick and spade."
                                                      Bettel K. Jhones
%
BONDSMAN

n. A fool who, having property of his own, undertakes to become responsible
for that entrusted to another to a third.

    Philippe of Orleans wishing to appoint one of his favorites, a
dissolute nobleman, to a high office, asked him what security he would
be able to give.  "I need no bondsmen," he replied, "for I can give
you my word of honor."  "And pray what may be the value of that?"
inquired the amused Regent.  "Monsieur, it is worth its weight in
gold."
%
BORE

n. A person who talks when you wish him to listen.
%
BOTANY

n. The science of vegetables -- those that are not good to eat, as
well as those that are. It deals largely with their flowers, which are
commonly badly designed, inartistic in color, and ill- smelling.
%
BOTTLE-NOSED

adj. Having a nose created in the image of its maker.
%
BOUNDARY

n. In political geography, an imaginary line between two nations, separating
the imaginary rights of one from the imaginary rights of the other.
%
BOUNTY

n. The liberality of one who has much, in permitting one who has nothing
to get all that he can.

        A single swallow, it is said, devours ten millions of insects
    every year.  The supplying of these insects I take to be a signal
    instance of the Creator's bounty in providing for the lives of His
    creatures.
                                                    Henry Ward Beecher
%
BRAHMA

n. He who created the Hindoos, who are preserved by Vishnu and destroyed
by Siva -- a rather neater division of labor than is found among the deities
of some other nations. The Abracadabranese, for example, are created by
Sin, maintained by Theft and destroyed by Folly. The priests of Brahma,
like those of Abracadabranese, are holy and learned men who are never naughty.

    O Brahma, thou rare old Divinity,
    First Person of the Hindoo Trinity,
    You sit there so calm and securely,
    With feet folded up so demurely --
    You're the First Person Singular, surely.
                                                        Polydore Smith
%
BRAIN

n. An apparatus with which we think what we think. That which
distinguishes the man who is content to _be_ something from the man who
wishes to _do_ something. A man of great wealth, or one who has been
pitchforked into high station, has commonly such a headful of brain that
his neighbors cannot keep their hats on. In our civilization, and under
our republican form of government, brain is so highly honored that it
is rewarded by exemption from the cares of office.
%
BRANDY

n. A cordial composed of one part thunder-and-lightning, one part remorse,
two parts bloody murder, one part death-hell-and-the- grave and four parts
clarified Satan. Dose, a headful all the time. Brandy is said by Dr. Johnson
to be the drink of heroes. Only a hero will venture to drink it.
%
BRIDE

n. A woman with a fine prospect of happiness behind her.
%
BRUTE

n. See HUSBAND.
%
