FAIRY

n. A creature, variously fashioned and endowed, that formerly inhabited
the meadows and forests. It was nocturnal in its habits, and somewhat
addicted to dancing and the theft of children. The fairies are now
believed by naturalist to be extinct, though a clergyman of the Church
of England saw three near Colchester as lately as 1855, while passing
through a park after dining with the lord of the manor. The sight
greatly staggered him, and he was so affected that his account of it
was incoherent. In the year 1807 a troop of fairies visited a wood
near Aix and carried off the daughter of a peasant, who had been seen
to enter it with a bundle of clothing. The son of a wealthy bourgeois
disappeared about the same time, but afterward returned.  He had seen
the abduction been in pursuit of the fairies. Justinian Gaux, a writer
of the fourteenth century, avers that so great is the fairies' power of
transformation that he saw one change itself into two opposing armies
and fight a battle with great slaughter, and that the next day, after it
had resumed its original shape and gone away, there were seven hundred
bodies of the slain which the villagers had to bury. He does not say if
any of the wounded recovered. In the time of Henry III, of England, a
law was made which prescribed the death penalty for "Kyllynge, wowndynge,
or mamynge" a fairy, and it was universally respected.
%
FAITH

n. Belief without evidence in what is told by one who speaks without
knowledge, of things without parallel.
%
FAMOUS

adj. Conspicuously miserable.

    Done to a turn on the iron, behold
        Him who to be famous aspired.
    Content?  Well, his grill has a plating of gold,
        And his twistings are greatly admired.
                                                       Hassan Brubuddy
%
FASHION

n. A despot whom the wise ridicule and obey.

    A king there was who lost an eye
        In some excess of passion;
    And straight his courtiers all did try
        To follow the new fashion.

    Each dropped one eyelid when before
        The throne he ventured, thinking
    'Twould please the king.  That monarch swore
        He'd slay them all for winking.

    What should they do?  They were not hot
        To hazard such disaster;
    They dared not close an eye -- dared not
        See better than their master.

    Seeing them lacrymose and glum,
        A leech consoled the weepers:
    He spread small rags with liquid gum
        And covered half their peepers.

    The court all wore the stuff, the flame
        Of royal anger dying.
    That's how court-plaster got its name
        Unless I'm greatly lying.
                                                            Naramy Oof
%
FEAST

n. A festival. A religious celebration usually signalized by gluttony
and drunkenness, frequently in honor of some holy person distinguished
for abstemiousness. In the Roman Catholic Church feasts are "movable"
and "immovable," but the celebrants are uniformly immovable until
they are full. In their earliest development these entertainments took
the form of feasts for the dead; such were held by the Greeks, under the
name 'Nemeseia', by the Aztecs and Peruvians, as in modern times they
are popular with the Chinese; though it is believed that the ancient dead,
like the modern, were light eaters. Among the many feasts of the Romans
was the 'Novemdiale', which was held, according to Livy, whenever
stones fell from heaven.
%
FELON

n. A person of greater enterprise than discretion, who in embracing
an opportunity has formed an unfortunate attachment.
%
FEMALE

n. One of the opposing, or unfair, sex.

    The Maker, at Creation's birth,
    With living things had stocked the earth.
    From elephants to bats and snails,
    They all were good, for all were males.
    But when the Devil came and saw
    He said:  "By Thine eternal law
    Of growth, maturity, decay,
    These all must quickly pass away
    And leave untenanted the earth
    Unless Thou dost establish birth" --
    Then tucked his head beneath his wing
    To laugh -- he had no sleeve -- the thing
    With deviltry did so accord,
    That he'd suggested to the Lord.
    The Master pondered this advice,
    Then shook and threw the fateful dice
    Wherewith all matters here below
    Are ordered, and observed the throw;
    Then bent His head in awful state,
    Confirming the decree of Fate.
    From every part of earth anew
    The conscious dust consenting flew,
    While rivers from their courses rolled
    To make it plastic for the mould.
    Enough collected (but no more,
    For niggard Nature hoards her store)
    He kneaded it to flexible clay,
    While Nick unseen threw some away.
    And then the various forms He cast,
    Gross organs first and finer last;
    No one at once evolved, but all
    By even touches grew and small
    Degrees advanced, till, shade by shade,
    To match all living things He'd made
    Females, complete in all their parts
    Except (His clay gave out) the hearts.
    "No matter," Satan cried; "with speed
    I'll fetch the very hearts they need" --
    So flew away and soon brought back
    The number needed, in a sack.
    That night earth range with sounds of strife --
    Ten million males each had a wife;
    That night sweet Peace her pinions spread
    O'er Hell -- ten million devils dead!
                                                                  G.J.
%
FIB

n. A lie that has not cut its teeth. An habitual liar's nearest approach
to truth: the perigee of his eccentric orbit.

    When David said:  "All men are liars," Dave,
        Himself a liar, fibbed like any thief.
        Perhaps he thought to weaken disbelief
    By proof that even himself was not a slave
    To Truth; though I suspect the aged knave
        Had been of all her servitors the chief
        Had he but known a fig's reluctant leaf
    Is more than e'er she wore on land or wave.
    No, David served not Naked Truth when he
        Struck that sledge-hammer blow at all his race;
            Nor did he hit the nail upon the head:
    For reason shows that it could never be,
        And the facts contradict him to his face.
            Men are not liars all, for some are dead.
                                                        Bartle Quinker
%
FICKLENESS

n. The iterated satiety of an enterprising affection.
%
FIDDLE

n. An instrument to tickle human ears by friction of a horse's tail
on the entrails of a cat.

    To Rome said Nero:  "If to smoke you turn
    I shall not cease to fiddle while you burn."
    To Nero Rome replied:  "Pray do your worst,
    'Tis my excuse that you were fiddling first."
                                                            Orm Pludge
%
FIDELITY

n. A virtue peculiar to those who are about to be betrayed.
%
FINANCE

n. The art or science of managing revenues and resources for the best
advantage of the manager. The pronunciation of this word with the i long
and the accent on the first syllable is one of America's most precious
discoveries and possessions.
%
FLAG

n. A colored rag borne above troops and hoisted on forts and ships.
It appears to serve the same purpose as certain signs that one sees and
vacant lots in London -- "Rubbish may be shot here."
%
FLESH

n. The Second Person of the secular Trinity.
%
FLOP

v. Suddenly to change one's opinions and go over to another party.
The most notable flop on record was that of Saul of Tarsus, who has been
severely criticised as a turn-coat by some of our partisan journals.
%
FLY-SPECK

n. The prototype of punctuation. It is observed by Garvinus that
the systems of punctuation in use by the various literary nations
depended originally upon the social habits and general diet of the flies
infesting the several countries. These creatures, which have always been
distinguished for a neighborly and companionable familiarity with authors,
liberally or niggardly embellish the manuscripts in process of growth
under the pen, according to their bodily habit, bringing out the sense of
the work by a species of interpretation superior to, and independent of,
the writer's powers. The "old masters" of literature -- that is to say,
the early writers whose work is so esteemed by later scribes and critics
in the same language -- never punctuated at all, but worked right along
free-handed, without that abruption of the thought which comes from the
use of points.  (We observe the same thing in children to-day, whose
usage in this particular is a striking and beautiful instance of the
law that the infancy of individuals reproduces the methods and stages of
development characterizing the infancy of races.) In the work of these
primitive scribes all the punctuation is found, by the modern investigator
with his optical instruments and chemical tests, to have been inserted by
the writers' ingenious and serviceable collaborator, the common house-fly
-- 'Musca maledicta'. In transcribing these ancient MSS, for the purpose
of either making the work their own or preserving what they naturally
regard as divine revelations, later writers reverently and accurately
copy whatever marks they find upon the papyrus or parchment, to the
unspeakable enhancement of the lucidity of the thought and value of the
work. Writers contemporary with the copyists naturally avail themselves
of the obvious advantages of these marks in their own work, and with
such assistance as the flies of their own household may be willing to
grant, frequently rival and sometimes surpass the older compositions,
in respect at least of punctuation, which is no small glory. Fully to
understand the important services that flies perform to literature it is
only necessary to lay a page of some popular novelist alongside a saucer
of cream-and-molasses in a sunny room and observe "how the wit brightens
and the style refines" in accurate proportion to the duration of exposure.
%
FOLLY

n. That "gift and faculty divine" whose creative and controlling
energy inspires Man's mind, guides his actions and adorns his life.

    Folly! although Erasmus praised thee once
        In a thick volume, and all authors known,
        If not thy glory yet thy power have shown,
    Deign to take homage from thy son who hunts
    Through all thy maze his brothers, fool and dunce,
        To mend their lives and to sustain his own,
        However feebly be his arrows thrown,
    Howe'er each hide the flying weapons blunts.
    All-Father Folly! be it mine to raise,
        With lusty lung, here on his western strand
        With all thine offspring thronged from every land,
    Thyself inspiring me, the song of praise.
    And if too weak, I'll hire, to help me bawl,
    Dick Watson Gilder, gravest of us all.
                                                     Aramis Loto Frope
%
FOOL

n. A person who pervades the domain of intellectual speculation and
diffuses himself through the channels of moral activity. He is omnific,
omniform, omnipercipient, omniscience, omnipotent. He it was who
invented letters, printing, the railroad, the steamboat, the telegraph,
the platitude and the circle of the sciences. He created patriotism and
taught the nations war -- founded theology, philosophy, law, medicine
and Chicago. He established monarchical and republican government. He
is from everlasting to everlasting -- such as creation's dawn beheld
he fooleth now. In the morning of time he sang upon primitive hills,
and in the noonday of existence headed the procession of being. His
grandmotherly hand was warmly tucked-in the set sun of civilization,
and in the twilight he prepares Man's evening meal of milk-and-morality
and turns down the covers of the universal grave.  And after the rest
of us shall have retired for the night of eternal oblivion he will sit
up to write a history of human civilization.
%
FORCE

n.

    "Force is but might," the teacher said --
        "That definition's just."
    The boy said naught but through instead,
    Remembering his pounded head:
        "Force is not might but must!"
%
FOREFINGER

n. The finger commonly used in pointing out two malefactors.
%
FOREORDINATION

n. This looks like an easy word to define, but when I consider that
pious and learned theologians have spent long lives in explaining it,
and written libraries to explain their explanations; when I remember the
nations have been divided and bloody battles caused by the difference
between foreordination and predestination, and that millions of treasure
have been expended in the effort to prove and disprove its compatibility
with freedom of the will and the efficacy of prayer, praise, and a
religious life, -- recalling these awful facts in the history of the
word, I stand appalled before the mighty problem of its signification,
abase my spiritual eyes, fearing to contemplate its portentous magnitude,
reverently uncover and humbly refer it to His Eminence Cardinal Gibbons
and His Grace Bishop Potter.
%
FORGETFULNESS

n. A gift of God bestowed upon doctors in compensation for their destitution
of conscience.
%
FORK

n. An instrument used chiefly for the purpose of putting dead animals into
the mouth. Formerly the knife was employed for this purpose, and by many
worthy persons is still thought to have many advantages over the other
tool, which, however, they do not altogether reject, but use to assist in
charging the knife. The immunity of these persons from swift and awful
death is one of the most striking proofs of God's mercy to those that
hate Him. FORMA PAUPERIS. [Latin] In the character of a poor person --
a method by which a litigant without money for lawyers is considerately
permitted to lose his case.

    When Adam long ago in Cupid's awful court
        (For Cupid ruled ere Adam was invented)
    Sued for Eve's favor, says an ancient law report,
        He stood and pleaded unhabilimented.

    "You sue 'in forma pauperis', I see," Eve cried;
        "Actions can't here be that way prosecuted."
    So all poor Adam's motions coldly were denied:
        He went away -- as he had come -- nonsuited.
                                                                  G.J.
%
FRANKALMOIGNE

n. The tenure by which a religious corporation holds lands on condition
of praying for the soul of the donor. In mediaeval times many of the
wealthiest fraternities obtained their estates in this simple and
cheap manner, and once when Henry VIII of England sent an officer to
confiscate certain vast possessions which a fraternity of monks held
by frankalmoigne, "What!"  said the Prior, "would you master stay our
benefactor's soul in Purgatory?"  "Ay," said the officer, coldly, "an ye
will not pray him thence for naught he must e'en roast." "But look you,
my son," persisted the good man, "this act hath rank as robbery of God!"
"Nay, nay, good father, my master the king doth but deliver him from
the manifold temptations of too great wealth."
%
FREEBOOTER

n. A conqueror in a small way of business, whose annexations lack of
the sanctifying merit of magnitude.
%
FREEDOM

n. Exemption from the stress of authority in a beggarly half dozen of
restraint's infinite multitude of methods. A political condition that
every nation supposes itself to enjoy in virtual monopoly. Liberty. The
distinction between freedom and liberty is not accurately known;
naturalists have never been able to find a living specimen of either.

    Freedom, as every schoolboy knows,
        Once shrieked as Kosciusko fell;
    On every wind, indeed, that blows
            I hear her yell.

    She screams whenever monarchs meet,
        And parliaments as well,
    To bind the chains about her feet
            And toll her knell.

    And when the sovereign people cast
        The votes they cannot spell,
    Upon the pestilential blast
            Her clamors swell.

    For all to whom the power's given
        To sway or to compel,
    Among themselves apportion Heaven
            And give her Hell.
                                                          Blary O'Gary
%
FREEMASONS

n. An order with secret rites, grotesque ceremonies and fantastic costumes,
which, originating in the reign of Charles II, among working artisans of
London, has been joined successively by the dead of past centuries in unbroken
retrogression until now it embraces all the generations of man on the hither
side of Adam and is drumming up distinguished recruits among the pre-Creational
inhabitants of Chaos and Formless Void. The order was founded at different
times by Charlemagne, Julius Caesar, Cyrus, Solomon, Zoroaster, Confucious,
Thothmes, and Buddha. Its emblems and symbols have been found in the Catacombs
of Paris and Rome, on the stones of the Parthenon and the Chinese Great
Wall, among the temples of Karnak and Palmyra and in the Egyptian Pyramids
-- always by a Freemason.
%
FRIENDLESS

adj. Having no favors to bestow. Destitute of fortune. Addicted to
utterance of truth and common sense.
%
FRIENDSHIP

n. A ship big enough to carry two in fair weather, but only one in
foul.

    The sea was calm and the sky was blue;
    Merrily, merrily sailed we two.
        (High barometer maketh glad.)
    On the tipsy ship, with a dreadful shout,
    The tempest descended and we fell out.
        (O the walking is nasty bad!)
                                                     Armit Huff Bettle
%
FROG

n. A reptile with edible legs. The first mention of frogs in profane
literature is in Homer's narrative of the war between them and the mice.
Skeptical persons have doubted Homer's authorship of the work, but the
learned, ingenious and industrious Dr. Schliemann has set the question
forever at rest by uncovering the bones of the slain frogs. One of
the forms of moral suasion by which Pharaoh was besought to favor the
Israelities was a plague of frogs, but Pharaoh, who liked them fricasees,
remarked, with truly oriental stoicism, that he could stand it as long
as the frogs and the Jews could; so the programme was changed. The frog
is a diligent songster, having a good voice but no ear. The libretto of
his favorite opera, as written by Aristophanes, is brief, simple and
effective -- "brekekex-koax"; the music is apparently by that eminent
composer, Richard Wagner. Horses have a frog in each hoof -- a thoughtful
provision of nature, enabling them to shine in a hurdle race.
%
FRYING-PAN

n. One part of the penal apparatus employed in that punitive institution,
a woman's kitchen. The frying-pan was invented by Calvin, and by him used
in cooking span-long infants that had died without baptism; and observing
one day the horrible torment of a tramp who had incautiously pulled a
fried babe from the waste-dump and devoured it, it occurred to the great
divine to rob death of its terrors by introducing the frying-pan into
every household in Geneva. Thence it spread to all corners of the world,
and has been of invaluable assistance in the propagation of his sombre
faith. The following lines (said to be from the pen of his Grace Bishop
Potter) seem to imply that the usefulness of this utensil is not limited
to this world; but as the consequences of its employment in this life
reach over into the life to come, so also itself may be found on the
other side, rewarding its devotees:

    Old Nick was summoned to the skies.
        Said Peter:  "Your intentions
    Are good, but you lack enterprise
        Concerning new inventions.

    "Now, broiling in an ancient plan
        Of torment, but I hear it
    Reported that the frying-pan
        Sears best the wicked spirit.

    "Go get one -- fill it up with fat --
        Fry sinners brown and good in't."
    "I know a trick worth two o' that,"
        Said Nick -- "I'll cook their food in't."
%
FUNERAL

n. A pageant whereby we attest our respect for the dead by enriching the
undertaker, and strengthen our grief by an expenditure that deepens our
groans and doubles our tears.

    The savage dies -- they sacrifice a horse
    To bear to happy hunting-grounds the corse.
    Our friends expire -- we make the money fly
    In hope their souls will chase it to the sky.
                                                            Jex Wopley
%
FUTURE

n. That period of time in which our affairs prosper, our friends are
true and our happiness is assured.
%
