EAT

v.i. To perform successively (and successfully) the functions of mastication,
humectation, and deglutition.

    "I was in the drawing-room, enjoying my dinner," said Brillat-
Savarin, beginning an anecdote.  "What!" interrupted Rochebriant;
"eating dinner in a drawing-room?"  "I must beg you to observe,
monsieur," explained the great gastronome, "that I did not say I was
eating my dinner, but enjoying it.  I had dined an hour before."
%
EAVESDROP

v.i. Secretly to overhear a catalogue of the crimes and vices of another
or yourself.

    A lady with one of her ears applied
    To an open keyhole heard, inside,
    Two female gossips in converse free --
    The subject engaging them was she.
    "I think," said one, "and my husband thinks
    That she's a prying, inquisitive minx!"
    As soon as no more of it she could hear
    The lady, indignant, removed her ear.
    "I will not stay," she said, with a pout,
    "To hear my character lied about!"
                                                        Gopete Sherany
%
ECCENTRICITY

n. A method of distinction so cheap that fools employ it to accentuate
their incapacity.
%
ECONOMY

n. Purchasing the barrel of whiskey that you do not need for the price
of the cow that you cannot afford.
%
EDIBLE

adj. Good to eat, and wholesome to digest, as a worm to a toad, a toad
to a snake, a snake to a pig, a pig to a man, and a man to a worm.
%
EDITOR

n. A person who combines the judicial functions of Minos, Rhadamanthus
and Aeacus, but is placable with an obolus; a severely virtuous censor,
but so charitable withal that he tolerates the virtues of others and the
vices of himself; who flings about him the splintering lightning and sturdy
thunders of admonition till he resembles a bunch of firecrackers petulantly
uttering his mind at the tail of a dog; then straightway murmurs a mild,
melodious lay, soft as the cooing of a donkey intoning its prayer to the
evening star. Master of mysteries and lord of law, high-pinnacled upon
the throne of thought, his face suffused with the dim splendors of the
Transfiguration, his legs intertwisted and his tongue a-cheek, the editor
spills his will along the paper and cuts it off in lengths to suit. And
at intervals from behind the veil of the temple is heard the voice of the
foreman demanding three inches of wit and six lines of religious meditation,
or bidding him turn off the wisdom and whack up some pathos.

    O, the Lord of Law on the Throne of Thought,
        A gilded impostor is he.
    Of shreds and patches his robes are wrought,
                His crown is brass,
                Himself an ass,
        And his power is fiddle-dee-dee.
    Prankily, crankily prating of naught,
    Silly old quilly old Monarch of Thought.
        Public opinion's camp-follower he,
        Thundering, blundering, plundering free.
                    Affected,
                        Ungracious,
                    Suspected,
                        Mendacious,
    Respected contemporaree!
                                                      J.H. Bumbleshook
%
EDUCATION

n. That which discloses to the wise and disguises from the foolish
their lack of understanding.
%
EFFECT

n. The second of two phenomena which always occur together in the same
order. The first, called a Cause, is said to generate the other -- which
is no more sensible than it would be for one who has never seen a dog except
in the pursuit of a rabbit to declare the rabbit the cause of a dog.
%
EGOTIST

n. A person of low taste, more interested in himself than in me.

    Megaceph, chosen to serve the State
    In the halls of legislative debate,
    One day with all his credentials came
    To the capitol's door and announced his name.
    The doorkeeper looked, with a comical twist
    Of the face, at the eminent egotist,
    And said:  "Go away, for we settle here
    All manner of questions, knotty and queer,
    And we cannot have, when the speaker demands
    To be told how every member stands,
    A man who to all things under the sky
    Assents by eternally voting 'I'."
%
EJECTION

n. An approved remedy for the disease of garrulity. It is also much
used in cases of extreme poverty.
%
ELECTOR

n. One who enjoys the sacred privilege of voting for the man of another
man's choice.
%
ELECTRICITY

n. The power that causes all natural phenomena not known to be caused
by something else. It is the same thing as lightning, and its famous attempt
to strike Dr. Franklin is one of the most picturesque incidents in that
great and good man's career. The memory of Dr. Franklin is justly held
in great reverence, particularly in France, where a waxen effigy of him
was recently on exhibition, bearing the following touching account of his
life and services to science:

        "Monsieur Franqulin, inventor of electricity.  This
    illustrious savant, after having made several voyages around the
    world, died on the Sandwich Islands and was devoured by savages,
    of whom not a single fragment was ever recovered."

    Electricity seems destined to play a most important part in the
arts and industries.  The question of its economical application to
some purposes is still unsettled, but experiment has already proved
that it will propel a street car better than a gas jet and give more
light than a horse.
%
ELEGY

n. A composition in verse, in which, without employing any of the methods
of humor, the writer aims to produce in the reader's mind the dampest kind
of dejection. The most famous English example begins somewhat like this:

    The cur foretells the knell of parting day;
        The loafing herd winds slowly o'er the lea;
    The wise man homeward plods; I only stay
        To fiddle-faddle in a minor key.
%
ELOQUENCE

n. The art of orally persuading fools that white is the color that
it appears to be. It includes the gift of making any color appear white.
%
ELYSIUM

n. An imaginary delightful country which the ancients foolishly believed
to be inhabited by the spirits of the good. This ridiculous and mischievous
fable was swept off the face of the earth by the early Christians -- may
their souls be happy in Heaven!
%
EMANCIPATION

n. A bondman's change from the tyranny of another to the despotism
of himself.

    He was a slave:  at word he went and came;
        His iron collar cut him to the bone.
    Then Liberty erased his owner's name,
        Tightened the rivets and inscribed his own.
                                                                  G.J.
%
EMBALM

v.i. To cheat vegetation by locking up the gases upon which it feeds.
By embalming their dead and thereby deranging the natural balance between
animal and vegetable life, the Egyptians made their once fertile and populous
country barren and incapable of supporting more than a meagre crew. The
modern metallic burial casket is a step in the same direction, and many
a dead man who ought now to be ornamenting his neighbor's lawn as a tree,
or enriching his table as a bunch of radishes, is doomed to a long inutility.
We shall get him after awhile if we are spared, but in the meantime the
violet and rose are languishing for a nibble at his glutoeus maximus.
%
EMOTION

n. A prostrating disease caused by a determination of the heart to
the head. It is sometimes accompanied by a copious discharge of hydrated
chloride of sodium from the eyes.
%
ENCOMIAST

n. A special (but not particular) kind of liar.
%
END

n. The position farthest removed on either hand from the Interlocutor.

    The man was perishing apace
        Who played the tambourine;
    The seal of death was on his face --
        'Twas pallid, for 'twas clean.

    "This is the end," the sick man said
        In faint and failing tones.
    A moment later he was dead,
        And Tambourine was Bones.
                                                         Tinley Roquot
%
ENOUGH

pro. All there is in the world if you like it.

    Enough is as good as a feast -- for that matter
    Enougher's as good as a feast for the platter.
                                                      Arbely C. Strunk
%
ENTERTAINMENT

n. Any kind of amusement whose inroads stop short of death by injection.
%
ENTHUSIASM

n. A distemper of youth, curable by small doses of repentance in connection
with outward applications of experience. Byron, who recovered long enough
to call it "entuzy-muzy," had a relapse, which carried him off
-- to Missolonghi.
%
ENVELOPE

n. The coffin of a document; the scabbard of a bill; the husk of a
remittance; the bed-gown of a love-letter.
%
ENVY

n. Emulation adapted to the meanest capacity.
%
EPAULET

n. An ornamented badge, serving to distinguish a military officer from
the enemy -- that is to say, from the officer of lower rank to whom his
death would give promotion.
%
EPICURE

n. An opponent of Epicurus, an abstemious philosopher who, holding
that pleasure should be the chief aim of man, wasted no time in gratification
from the senses.
%
EPIGRAM

n. A short, sharp saying in prose or verse, frequently characterized
by acidity or acerbity and sometimes by wisdom. Following are some of the
more notable epigrams of the learned and ingenious Dr. Jamrach Holobom:

        We know better the needs of ourselves than of others.  To
    serve oneself is economy of administration.

        In each human heart are a tiger, a pig, an ass and a
    nightingale.  Diversity of character is due to their unequal
    activity.

        There are three sexes; males, females and girls.

        Beauty in women and distinction in men are alike in this:
    they seem to be the unthinking a kind of credibility.

        Women in love are less ashamed than men.  They have less to be
    ashamed of.

        While your friend holds you affectionately by both your hands
    you are safe, for you can watch both his.
%
EPITAPH

n. An inscription on a tomb, showing that virtues acquired by death
have a retroactive effect. Following is a touching example:

    Here lie the bones of Parson Platt,
    Wise, pious, humble and all that,
    Who showed us life as all should live it;
    Let that be said -- and God forgive it!
%
ERUDITION

n. Dust shaken out of a book into an empty skull.

    So wide his erudition's mighty span,
    He knew Creation's origin and plan
    And only came by accident to grief --
    He thought, poor man, 'twas right to be a thief.
                                                           Romach Pute
%
ESOTERIC

adj. Very particularly abstruse and consummately occult. The ancient
philosophies were of two kinds, -- exoteric, those that the philosophers
themselves could partly understand, and esoteric, those that nobody
could understand. It is the latter that have most profoundly affected modern
thought and found greatest acceptance in our time.
%
ETHNOLOGY

n. The science that treats of the various tribes of Man, as robbers,
thieves, swindlers, dunces, lunatics, idiots and ethnologists.
%
EUCHARIST

n. A sacred feast of the religious sect of Theophagi.

    A dispute once unhappily arose among the members of this sect as
to what it was that they ate.  In this controversy some five hundred
thousand have already been slain, and the question is still unsettled.
%
EULOGY

n. Praise of a person who has either the advantages of wealth and power,
or the consideration to be dead.
%
EVANGELIST

n. A bearer of good tidings, particularly (in a religious sense) such
as assure us of our own salvation and the damnation of our neighbors.
%
EVERLASTING

adj. Lasting forever. It is with no small diffidence that I venture
to offer this brief and elementary definition, for I am not unaware
of the existence of a bulky volume by a sometime Bishop of Worcester,
entitled, 'A Partial Definition of the Word "Everlasting," as Used in the
Authorized Version of the Holy Scriptures'. His book was once esteemed
of great authority in the Anglican Church, and is still, I understand,
studied with pleasure to the mind and profit of the soul.
%
EXCEPTION

n. A thing which takes the liberty to differ from other things of its
class, as an honest man, a truthful woman, etc. "The exception proves
the rule" is an expression constantly upon the lips of the ignorant,
who parrot it from one another with never a thought of its absurdity. In
the Latin, "Exceptio probat regulam" means that the exception _tests_
the rule, puts it to the proof, not _confirms_ it. The malefactor who
drew the meaning from this excellent dictum and substituted a contrary
one of his own exerted an evil power which appears to be immortal.
%
EXCESS

n. In morals, an indulgence that enforces by appropriate penalties
the law of moderation.

    Hail, high Excess -- especially in wine,
        To thee in worship do I bend the knee
        Who preach abstemiousness unto me --
    My skull thy pulpit, as my paunch thy shrine.
    Precept on precept, aye, and line on line,
        Could ne'er persuade so sweetly to agree
        With reason as thy touch, exact and free,
    Upon my forehead and along my spine.
    At thy command eschewing pleasure's cup,
        With the hot grape I warm no more my wit;
        When on thy stool of penitence I sit
    I'm quite converted, for I can't get up.
    Ungrateful he who afterward would falter
    To make new sacrifices at thine altar!
%
EXCOMMUNICATION

n.

    This "excommunication" is a word
    In speech ecclesiastical oft heard,
    And means the damning, with bell, book and candle,
    Some sinner whose opinions are a scandal --
    A rite permitting Satan to enslave him
    Forever, and forbidding Christ to save him.
                                                            Gat Huckle
%
EXECUTIVE

n. An officer of the Government, whose duty it is to enforce the wishes
of the legislative power until such time as the judicial department shall
be pleased to pronounce them invalid and of no effect. Following is an
extract from an old book entitled, "The Lunarian Astonished" -- Pfeiffer
& Co., Boston, 1803:

    LUNARIAN:  Then when your Congress has passed a law it goes
        directly to the Supreme Court in order that it may at once be
        known whether it is constitutional?

    TERRESTRIAN:  O no; it does not require the approval of the
        Supreme Court until having perhaps been enforced for many
        years somebody objects to its operation against himself -- I
        mean his client.  The President, if he approves it, begins to
        execute it at once.

    LUNARIAN:  Ah, the executive power is a part of the legislative.
        Do your policemen also have to approve the local ordinances
        that they enforce?

    TERRESTRIAN:  Not yet -- at least not in their character of
        constables.  Generally speaking, though, all laws require the
        approval of those whom they are intended to restrain.

    LUNARIAN:  I see.  The death warrant is not valid until signed by
        the murderer.

    TERRESTRIAN:  My friend, you put it too strongly; we are not so
        consistent.

    LUNARIAN:  But this system of maintaining an expensive judicial
        machinery to pass upon the validity of laws only after they
        have long been executed, and then only when brought before the
        court by some private person -- does it not cause great
        confusion?

    TERRESTRIAN:  It does.

    LUNARIAN:  Why then should not your laws, previously to being
        executed, be validated, not by the signature of your
        President, but by that of the Chief Justice of the Supreme
        Court?

    TERRESTRIAN:  There is no precedent for any such course.

    LUNARIAN:  Precedent.  What is that?

    TERRESTRIAN:  It has been defined by five hundred lawyers in three
        volumes each.  So how can any one know?
%
EXHORT

v.t. In religious affairs, to put the conscience of another upon the
spit and roast it to a nut-brown discomfort.
%
EXILE

n. One who serves his country by residing abroad, yet is not an ambassador.

    An English sea-captain being asked if he had read "The Exile of
Erin," replied:  "No, sir, but I should like to anchor on it."  Years
afterwards, when he had been hanged as a pirate after a career of
unparalleled atrocities, the following memorandum was found in the
ship's log that he had kept at the time of his reply:

    Aug. 3d, 1842.  Made a joke on the ex-Isle of Erin.  Coldly
    received.  War with the whole world!
%
EXISTENCE

n.

    A transient, horrible, fantastic dream,
    Wherein is nothing yet all things do seem:
    From which we're wakened by a friendly nudge
    Of our bedfellow Death, and cry:  "O fudge!"
%
EXPERIENCE

n. The wisdom that enables us to recognize as an undesirable old acquaintance
the folly that we have already embraced.

    To one who, journeying through night and fog,
    Is mired neck-deep in an unwholesome bog,
    Experience, like the rising of the dawn,
    Reveals the path that he should not have gone.
                                                        Joel Frad Bink
%
EXPOSTULATION

n. One of the many methods by which fools prefer to lose their friends.
%
EXTINCTION

n. The raw material out of which theology created the future state.
%
