SABBATH

n. A weekly festival having its origin in the fact that God made the
world in six days and was arrested on the seventh. Among the Jews observance
of the day was enforced by a Commandment of which this is the Christian
version: "Remember the seventh day to make thy neighbor keep it wholly."
To the Creator it seemed fit and expedient that the Sabbath should be the
last day of the week, but the Early Fathers of the Church held other views.
So great is the sanctity of the day that even where the Lord holds a doubtful
and precarious jurisdiction over those who go down to (and down into) the
sea it is reverently recognized, as is manifest in the following deep-water
version of the Fourth Commandment:

    Six days shalt thou labor and do all thou art able,
    And on the seventh holystone the deck and scrape the cable.

    Decks are no longer holystoned, but the cable still supplies the
captain with opportunity to attest a pious respect for the divine
ordinance.
%
SACERDOTALIST

n. One who holds the belief that a clergyman is a priest. Denial of
this momentous doctrine is the hardest challenge that is now flung into
the teeth of the Episcopalian church by the Neo-Dictionarians.
%
SACRAMENT

n. A solemn religious ceremony to which several degrees of authority
and significance are attached. Rome has seven sacraments, but the Protestant
churches, being less prosperous, feel that they can afford only two, and
these of inferior sanctity. Some of the smaller sects have no sacraments
at all -- for which mean economy they will indubitable be damned.
%
SACRED

adj. Dedicated to some religious purpose; having a divine character;
inspiring solemn thoughts or emotions; as, the Dalai Lama of Thibet; the
Moogum of M'bwango; the temple of Apes in Ceylon; the Cow in India; the
Crocodile, the Cat and the Onion of ancient Egypt; the Mufti of Moosh;
the hair of the dog that bit Noah, etc.

    All things are either sacred or profane.
    The former to ecclesiasts bring gain;
    The latter to the devil appertain.
                                                       Dumbo Omohundro
%
SANDLOTTER

n. A vertebrate mammal holding the political views of Denis Kearney,
a notorious demagogue of San Francisco, whose audiences gathered in the
open spaces (sandlots) of the town. True to the traditions of his species,
this leader of the proletariat was finally bought off by his law-and-order
enemies, living prosperously silent and dying impenitently rich. But before
his treason he imposed upon California a constitution that was a confection
of sin in a diction of solecisms. The similarity between the words "sandlotter"
and "sansculotte" is problematically significant, but indubitably
suggestive.
%
SAFETY-CLUTCH

n. A mechanical device acting automatically to prevent the fall of
an elevator, or cage, in case of an accident to the hoisting apparatus.

    Once I seen a human ruin
        In an elevator-well,
    And his members was bestrewin'
        All the place where he had fell.

    And I says, apostrophisin'
        That uncommon woful wreck:
    "Your position's so surprisin'
        That I tremble for your neck!"

    Then that ruin, smilin' sadly
        And impressive, up and spoke:
    "Well, I wouldn't tremble badly,
        For it's been a fortnight broke."

    Then, for further comprehension
        Of his attitude, he begs
    I will focus my attention
        On his various arms and legs --

    How they all are contumacious;
        Where they each, respective, lie;
    How one trotter proves ungracious,
        T'other one an alibi.

    These particulars is mentioned
        For to show his dismal state,
    Which I wasn't first intentioned
        To specifical relate.

    None is worser to be dreaded
        That I ever have heard tell
    Than the gent's who there was spreaded
        In that elevator-well.

    Now this tale is allegoric --
        It is figurative all,
    For the well is metaphoric
        And the feller didn't fall.

    I opine it isn't moral
        For a writer-man to cheat,
    And despise to wear a laurel
        As was gotten by deceit.

    For 'tis Politics intended
        By the elevator, mind,
    It will boost a person splendid
        If his talent is the kind.

    Col. Bryan had the talent
        (For the busted man is him)
    And it shot him up right gallant
        Till his head begun to swim.

    Then the rope it broke above him
        And he painful come to earth
    Where there's nobody to love him
        For his detrimented worth.

    Though he's livin' none would know him,
        Or at leastwise not as such.
    Moral of this woful poem:
        Frequent oil your safety-clutch.
                                                           Porfer Poog
%
SAINT

n. A dead sinner revised and edited.

    The Duchess of Orleans relates that the irreverent old
calumniator, Marshal Villeroi, who in his youth had known St. Francis
de Sales, said, on hearing him called saint:  "I am delighted to hear
that Monsieur de Sales is a saint.  He was fond of saying indelicate
things, and used to cheat at cards.  In other respects he was a
perfect gentleman, though a fool."
%
SALACITY

n. A certain literary quality frequently observed in popular novels,
especially in those written by women and young girls, who give it another
name and think that in introducing it they are occupying a neglected field
of letters and reaping an overlooked harvest. If they have the misfortune
to live long enough they are tormented with a desire to burn their sheaves.
%
SALAMANDER

n. Originally a reptile inhabiting fire; later, an anthropomorphous
immortal, but still a pyrophile. Salamanders are now believed to be extinct,
the last one of which we have an account having been seen in Carcassonne
by the Abbe Belloc, who exorcised it with a bucket of holy water.
%
SARCOPHAGUS

n. Among the Greeks a coffin which being made of a certain kind of
carnivorous stone, had the peculiar property of devouring the body placed
in it. The sarcophagus known to modern obsequiographers is commonly a product
of the carpenter's art.
%
SATAN

n. One of the Creator's lamentable mistakes, repented in sashcloth
and axes. Being instated as an archangel, Satan made himself multifariously
objectionable and was finally expelled from Heaven. Halfway in his descent
he paused, bent his head in thought a moment and at last went back. "There
is one favor that I should like to ask," said he.

    "Name it."
    "Man, I understand, is about to be created.  He will need laws."
    "What, wretch! you his appointed adversary, charged from the dawn
of eternity with hatred of his soul -- you ask for the right to make
his laws?"
    "Pardon; what I have to ask is that he be permitted to make them
himself."
    It was so ordered.
%
SATIETY

n. The feeling that one has for the plate after he has eaten its contents,
madam.
%
SATIRE

n. An obsolete kind of literary composition in which the vices and
follies of the author's enemies were expounded with imperfect tenderness.
In this country satire never had more than a sickly and uncertain existence,
for the soul of it is wit, wherein we are dolefully deficient, the humor
that we mistake for it, like all humor, being tolerant and sympathetic.
Moreover, although Americans are "endowed by their Creator" with
abundant vice and folly, it is not generally known that these are reprehensible
qualities, wherefore the satirist is popularly regarded as a soul-spirited
knave, and his ever victim's outcry for codefendants evokes a national
assent.

    Hail Satire! be thy praises ever sung
    In the dead language of a mummy's tongue,
    For thou thyself art dead, and damned as well --
    Thy spirit (usefully employed) in Hell.
    Had it been such as consecrates the Bible
    Thou hadst not perished by the law of libel.
                                                          Barney Stims
%
SATYR

n. One of the few characters of the Grecian mythology accorded recognition
in the Hebrew. (Leviticus, xvii, 7.) The satyr was at first a member of
the dissolute community acknowledging a loose allegiance with Dionysius,
but underwent many transformations and improvements. Not infrequently he
is confounded with the faun, a later and decenter creation of the Romans,
who was less like a man and more like a goat.
%
SAUCE

n. The one infallible sign of civilization and enlightenment. A people
with no sauces has one thousand vices; a people with one sauce has only
nine hundred and ninety-nine. For every sauce invented and accepted a vice
is renounced and forgiven.
%
SAW

n. A trite popular saying, or proverb. (Figurative and colloquial.)
So called because it makes its way into a wooden head. Following are examples
of old saws fitted with new teeth.

    A penny saved is a penny to squander.

    A man is known by the company that he organizes.

    A bad workman quarrels with the man who calls him that.

    A bird in the hand is worth what it will bring.

    Better late than before anybody has invited you.

    Example is better than following it.

    Half a loaf is better than a whole one if there is much else.

    Think twice before you speak to a friend in need.

    What is worth doing is worth the trouble of asking somebody to do it.

    Least said is soonest disavowed.

    He laughs best who laughs least.

    Speak of the Devil and he will hear about it.

    Of two evils choose to be the least.

    Strike while your employer has a big contract.

    Where there's a will there's a won't.
%
SCARABAEUS

n. The sacred beetle of the ancient Egyptians, allied to our familiar
"tumble-bug." It was supposed to symbolize immortality, the fact
that God knew why giving it its peculiar sanctity. Its habit of incubating
its eggs in a ball of ordure may also have commended it to the favor of
the priesthood, and may some day assure it an equal reverence among ourselves.
True, the American beetle is an inferior beetle, but the American priest
is an inferior priest.
%
SCARABEE

n. The same as scarabaeus.

                He fell by his own hand
                    Beneath the great oak tree.
                He'd traveled in a foreign land.
                He tried to make her understand
                The dance that's called the Saraband,
                    But he called it Scarabee.
    He had called it so through an afternoon,
        And she, the light of his harem if so might be,
        Had smiled and said naught.  O the body was fair to see,
    All frosted there in the shine o' the moon --
                        Dead for a Scarabee
    And a recollection that came too late.
                            O Fate!
                    They buried him where he lay,
                    He sleeps awaiting the Day,
                            In state,
    And two Possible Puns, moon-eyed and wan,
    Gloom over the grave and then move on.
                        Dead for a Scarabee!
                                                       Fernando Tapple
%
SCARIFICATION

n. A form of penance practised by the mediaeval pious. The rite was
performed, sometimes with a knife, sometimes with a hot iron, but always,
says Arsenius Asceticus, acceptably if the penitent spared himself no pain
nor harmless disfigurement. Scarification, with other crude penances, has
now been superseded by benefaction. The founding of a library or endowment
of a university is said to yield to the penitent a sharper and more lasting
pain than is conferred by the knife or iron, and is therefore a surer means
of grace. There are, however, two grave objections to it as a penitential
method: the good that it does and the taint of justice.
%
SCEPTER

n. A king's staff of office, the sign and symbol of his authority.
It was originally a mace with which the sovereign admonished his jester
and vetoed ministerial measures by breaking the bones of their proponents.
%
SCIMETAR

n. A curved sword of exceeding keenness, in the conduct of which certain
Orientals attain a surprising proficiency, as the incident here related
will serve to show. The account is translated from the Japanese by Shusi
Itama, a famous writer of the thirteenth century.

        When the great Gichi-Kuktai was Mikado he condemned to
    decapitation Jijiji Ri, a high officer of the Court.  Soon after
    the hour appointed for performance of the rite what was his
    Majesty's surprise to see calmly approaching the throne the man
    who should have been at that time ten minutes dead!
        "Seventeen hundred impossible dragons!" shouted the enraged
    monarch.  "Did I not sentence you to stand in the market-place and
    have your head struck off by the public executioner at three
    o'clock?  And is it not now 3:10?"
        "Son of a thousand illustrious deities," answered the
    condemned minister, "all that you say is so true that the truth is
    a lie in comparison.  But your heavenly Majesty's sunny and
    vitalizing wishes have been pestilently disregarded.  With joy I
    ran and placed my unworthy body in the market-place.  The
    executioner appeared with his bare scimetar, ostentatiously
    whirled it in air, and then, tapping me lightly upon the neck,
    strode away, pelted by the populace, with whom I was ever a
    favorite.  I am come to pray for justice upon his own dishonorable
    and treasonous head."
        "To what regiment of executioners does the black-boweled
    caitiff belong?" asked the Mikado.
        "To the gallant Ninety-eight Hundred and Thirty-seventh -- I
    know the man.  His name is Sakko-Samshi."
        "Let him be brought before me," said the Mikado to an
    attendant, and a half-hour later the culprit stood in the
    Presence.
        "Thou bastard son of a three-legged hunchback without thumbs!"
    roared the sovereign -- "why didst thou but lightly tap the neck
    that it should have been thy pleasure to sever?"
        "Lord of Cranes of Cherry Blooms," replied the executioner,
    unmoved, "command him to blow his nose with his fingers."
        Being commanded, Jijiji Ri laid hold of his nose and trumpeted
    like an elephant, all expecting to see the severed head flung
    violently from him.  Nothing occurred:  the performance prospered
    peacefully to the close, without incident.
        All eyes were now turned on the executioner, who had grown as
    white as the snows on the summit of Fujiama.  His legs trembled
    and his breath came in gasps of terror.
        "Several kinds of spike-tailed brass lions!" he cried; "I am a
    ruined and disgraced swordsman!  I struck the villain feebly
    because in flourishing the scimetar I had accidentally passed it
    through my own neck!  Father of the Moon, I resign my office."
        So saying, he gasped his top-knot, lifted off his head, and
    advancing to the throne laid it humbly at the Mikado's feet.
%
SCRAP-BOOK

n. A book that is commonly edited by a fool. Many persons of some small
distinction compile scrap-books containing whatever they happen to read
about themselves or employ others to collect. One of these egotists was
addressed in the lines following, by Agamemnon Melancthon Peters:

    Dear Frank, that scrap-book where you boast
        You keep a record true
    Of every kind of peppered roast
            That's made of you;

    Wherein you paste the printed gibes
        That revel round your name,
    Thinking the laughter of the scribes
            Attests your fame;

    Where all the pictures you arrange
        That comic pencils trace --
    Your funny figure and your strange
            Semitic face --

    Pray lend it me.  Wit I have not,
        Nor art, but there I'll list
    The daily drubbings you'd have got
            Had God a fist.
%
SCRIBBLER

n. A professional writer whose views are antagonistic to one's own.
%
SCRIPTURES

n. The sacred books of our holy religion, as distinguished from the
false and profane writings on which all other faiths are based.
%
SEAL

n. A mark impressed upon certain kinds of documents to attest their
authenticity and authority. Sometimes it is stamped upon wax, and attached
to the paper, sometimes into the paper itself. Sealing, in this sense,
is a survival of an ancient custom of inscribing important papers with
cabalistic words or signs to give them a magical efficacy independent of
the authority that they represent. In the British museum are preserved
many ancient papers, mostly of a sacerdotal character, validated by
necromantic pentagrams and other devices, frequently initial letters
of words to conjure with; and in many instances these are attached in
the same way that seals are appended now. As nearly every reasonless
and apparently meaningless custom, rite or observance of modern times
had origin in some remote utility, it is pleasing to note an example of
ancient nonsense evolving in the process of ages into something really
useful. Our word "sincere" is derived from 'sine cero', without wax,
but the learned are not in agreement as to whether this refers to
the absence of the cabalistic signs, or to that of the wax with which
letters were formerly closed from public scrutiny.  Either view of the
matter will serve one in immediate need of an hypothesis.  The initials
L.S., commonly appended to signatures of legal documents, mean 'locum
sigillis', the place of the seal, although the seal is no longer used --
an admirable example of conservatism distinguishing Man from the beasts
that perish. The words 'locum sigillis' are humbly suggested as a suitable
motto for the Pribyloff Islands whenever they shall take their place as
a sovereign State of the American Union.
%
SEINE

n. A kind of net for effecting an involuntary change of environment.
For fish it is made strong and coarse, but women are more easily taken
with a singularly delicate fabric weighted with small, cut stones.

    The devil casting a seine of lace,
        (With precious stones 'twas weighted)
    Drew it into the landing place
        And its contents calculated.

    All souls of women were in that sack --
        A draft miraculous, precious!
    But ere he could throw it across his back
        They'd all escaped through the meshes.
                                                      Baruch de Loppis
%
SELF-ESTEEM

n. An erroneous appraisement.
%
SELF-EVIDENT

adj. Evident to one's self and to nobody else.
%
SELFISH

adj. Devoid of consideration for the selfishness of others.
%
SENATE

n. A body of elderly gentlemen charged with high duties and misdemeanors.
%
SERIAL

n. A literary work, usually a story that is not true, creeping through
several issues of a newspaper or magazine. Frequently appended to each
installment is a "synposis of preceding chapters" for those who
have not read them, but a direr need is a synposis of succeeding chapters
for those who do not intend to read _them_. A synposis of the entire
work would be still better.

    The late James F. Bowman was writing a serial tale for a weekly
paper in collaboration with a genius whose name has not come down to
us.  They wrote, not jointly but alternately, Bowman supplying the
installment for one week, his friend for the next, and so on, world
without end, they hoped.  Unfortunately they quarreled, and one Monday
morning when Bowman read the paper to prepare himself for his task, he
found his work cut out for him in a way to surprise and pain him.  His
collaborator had embarked every character of the narrative on a ship
and sunk them all in the deepest part of the Atlantic.
%
SEVERALTY

n. Separateness, as, lands in severalty, i.e., lands held individually,
not in joint ownership. Certain tribes of Indians are believed now to be
sufficiently civilized to have in severalty the lands that they have hitherto
held as tribal organizations, and could not sell to the Whites for waxen
beads and potato whiskey.

    Lo! the poor Indian whose unsuited mind
    Saw death before, hell and the grave behind;
    Whom thrifty settler ne'er besought to stay --
    His small belongings their appointed prey;
    Whom Dispossession, with alluring wile,
    Persuaded elsewhere every little while!
    His fire unquenched and his undying worm
    By "land in severalty" (charming term!)
    Are cooled and killed, respectively, at last,
    And he to his new holding anchored fast!
%
SHERIFF

n. In America the chief executive office of a country, whose most
characteristic duties, in some of the Western and Southern States,
are the catching and hanging of rogues.

    John Elmer Pettibone Cajee
    (I write of him with little glee)
    Was just as bad as he could be.

    'Twas frequently remarked:  "I swon!
    The sun has never looked upon
    So bad a man as Neighbor John."

    A sinner through and through, he had
    This added fault:  it made him mad
    To know another man was bad.

    In such a case he thought it right
    To rise at any hour of night
    And quench that wicked person's light.

    Despite the town's entreaties, he
    Would hale him to the nearest tree
    And leave him swinging wide and free.

    Or sometimes, if the humor came,
    A luckless wight's reluctant frame
    Was given to the cheerful flame.

    While it was turning nice and brown,
    All unconcerned John met the frown
    Of that austere and righteous town.

    "How sad," his neighbors said, "that he
    So scornful of the law should be --
    An anar c, h, i, s, t."

    (That is the way that they preferred
    To utter the abhorrent word,
    So strong the aversion that it stirred.)

    "Resolved," they said, continuing,
    "That Badman John must cease this thing
    Of having his unlawful fling.

    "Now, by these sacred relics" -- here
    Each man had out a souvenir
    Got at a lynching yesteryear --

    "By these we swear he shall forsake
    His ways, nor cause our hearts to ache
    By sins of rope and torch and stake.

    "We'll tie his red right hand until
    He'll have small freedom to fulfil
    The mandates of his lawless will."

    So, in convention then and there,
    They named him Sheriff.  The affair
    Was opened, it is said, with prayer.
                                                     J. Milton Sloluck
%
SIREN

n. One of several musical prodigies famous for a vain attempt to dissuade
Odysseus from a life on the ocean wave. Figuratively, any lady of splendid
promise, dissembled purpose and disappointing performance.
%
SLANG

n. The grunt of the human hog ('Pignoramus intolerabilis') with
an audible memory. The speech of one who utters with his tongue what he
thinks with his ear, and feels the pride of a creator in accomplishing
the feat of a parrot. A means (under Providence) of setting up as a wit
without a capital of sense.
%
SMITHAREEN

n. A fragment, a decomponent part, a remain. The word is used variously,
but in the following verse on a noted female reformer who opposed
bicycle-riding by women because it "led them to the devil" it is seen
at its best:

    The wheels go round without a sound --
        The maidens hold high revel;
    In sinful mood, insanely gay,
    True spinsters spin adown the way
        From duty to the devil!
    They laugh, they sing, and -- ting-a-ling!
        Their bells go all the morning;
    Their lanterns bright bestar the night
        Pedestrians a-warning.
    With lifted hands Miss Charlotte stands,
        Good-Lording and O-mying,
    Her rheumatism forgotten quite,
        Her fat with anger frying.
    She blocks the path that leads to wrath,
        Jack Satan's power defying.
    The wheels go round without a sound
        The lights burn red and blue and green.
    What's this that's found upon the ground?
        Poor Charlotte Smith's a smithareen!
                                                     John William Yope
%
SOPHISTRY

n. The controversial method of an opponent, distinguished from one's
own by superior insincerity and fooling. This method is that of the later
Sophists, a Grecian sect of philosophers who began by teaching wisdom,
prudence, science, art and, in brief, whatever men ought to know, but lost
themselves in a maze of quibbles and a fog of words.

    His bad opponent's "facts" he sweeps away,
    And drags his sophistry to light of day;
    Then swears they're pushed to madness who resort
    To falsehood of so desperate a sort.
    Not so; like sods upon a dead man's breast,
    He lies most lightly who the least is pressed.
                                                        Polydore Smith
%
SORCERY

n. The ancient prototype and forerunner of political influence. It
was, however, deemed less respectable and sometimes was punished by torture
and death. Augustine Nicholas relates that a poor peasant who had been
accused of sorcery was put to the torture to compel a confession. After
enduring a few gentle agonies the suffering simpleton admitted his guilt,
but naively asked his tormentors if it were not possible to be a sorcerer
without knowing it.
%
SOUL

n. A spiritual entity concerning which there hath been brave disputation.
Plato held that those souls which in a previous state of existence
(antedating Athens) had obtained the clearest glimpses of eternal
truth entered into the bodies of persons who became philosophers. Plato
himself was a philosopher.  The souls that had least contemplated divine
truth animated the bodies of usurpers and despots. Dionysius I, who had
threatened to decapitate the broad- browed philosopher, was a usurper
and a despot. Plato, doubtless, was not the first to construct a system
of philosophy that could be quoted against his enemies; certainly he
was not the last.

    "Concerning the nature of the soul," saith the renowned author of
"Diversiones Sanctorum", "there hath been hardly more argument than
that of its place in the body.  Mine own belief is that the soul hath
her seat in the abdomen -- in which faith we may discern and interpret
a truth hitherto unintelligible, namely that the glutton is of all men
most devout.  He is said in the Scripture to 'make a god of his belly'
-- why, then, should he not be pious, having ever his Deity with him
to freshen his faith?  Who so well as he can know the might and
majesty that he shrines?  Truly and soberly, the soul and the stomach
are one Divine Entity; and such was the belief of Promasius, who
nevertheless erred in denying it immortality.  He had observed that
its visible and material substance failed and decayed with the rest of
the body after death, but of its immaterial essence he knew nothing.
This is what we call the Appetite, and it survives the wreck and reek
of mortality, to be rewarded or punished in another world, according
to what it hath demanded in the flesh.  The Appetite whose coarse
clamoring was for the unwholesome viands of the general market and the
public refectory shall be cast into eternal famine, whilst that which
firmly through civilly insisted on ortolans, caviare, terrapin,
anchovies, 'pates de foie gras' and all such Christian comestibles
shall flesh its spiritual tooth in the souls of them forever and ever,
and wreak its divine thirst upon the immortal parts of the rarest and
richest wines ever quaffed here below.  Such is my religious faith,
though I grieve to confess that neither His Holiness the Pope nor His
Grace the Archbishop of Canterbury (whom I equally and profoundly
revere) will assent to its dissemination."
%
SPOOKER

n. A writer whose imagination concerns itself with supernatural phenomena,
especially in the doings of spooks. One of the most illustrious spookers
of our time is Mr. William D. Howells, who introduces a well-credentialed
reader to as respectable and mannerly a company of spooks as one could
wish to meet. To the terror that invests the chairman of a district school
board, the Howells ghost adds something of the mystery enveloping a farmer
from another township.
%
STORY

n. A narrative, commonly untrue. The truth of the stories here following
has, however, not been successfully impeached.

    One evening Mr. Rudolph Block, of New York, found himself seated
at dinner alongside Mr. Percival Pollard, the distinguished critic.
    "Mr. Pollard," said he, "my book, "The Biography of a Dead Cow",
is published anonymously, but you can hardly be ignorant of its
authorship.  Yet in reviewing it you speak of it as the work of the
Idiot of the Century.  Do you think that fair criticism?"
    "I am very sorry, sir," replied the critic, amiably, "but it did
not occur to me that you really might not wish the public to know who
wrote it."

    Mr. W.C. Morrow, who used to live in San Jose, California, was
addicted to writing ghost stories which made the reader feel as if a
stream of lizards, fresh from the ice, were streaking it up his back
and hiding in his hair.  San Jose was at that time believed to be
haunted by the visible spirit of a noted bandit named Vasquez, who had
been hanged there.  The town was not very well lighted, and it is
putting it mildly to say that San Jose was reluctant to be out o'
nights.  One particularly dark night two gentlemen were abroad in the
loneliest spot within the city limits, talking loudly to keep up their
courage, when they came upon Mr. J.J. Owen, a well-known journalist.
    "Why, Owen," said one, "what brings you here on such a night as
this?  You told me that this is one of Vasquez' favorite haunts!  And
you are a believer.  Aren't you afraid to be out?"
    "My dear fellow," the journalist replied with a drear autumnal
cadence in his speech, like the moan of a leaf-laden wind, "I am
afraid to be in.  I have one of Will Morrow's stories in my pocket and
I don't dare to go where there is light enough to read it."

    Rear-Admiral Schley and Representative Charles F. Joy were
standing near the Peace Monument, in Washington, discussing the
question, Is success a failure?  Mr. Joy suddenly broke off in the
middle of an eloquent sentence, exclaiming:  "Hello!  I've heard that
band before.  Santlemann's, I think."
    "I don't hear any band," said Schley.
    "Come to think, I don't either," said Joy; "but I see General
Miles coming down the avenue, and that pageant always affects me in
the same way as a brass band.  One has to scrutinize one's impressions
pretty closely, or one will mistake their origin."
    While the Admiral was digesting this hasty meal of philosophy
General Miles passed in review, a spectacle of impressive dignity.
When the tail of the seeming procession had passed and the two
observers had recovered from the transient blindness caused by its
effulgence --
    "He seems to be enjoying himself," said the Admiral.
    "There is nothing," assented Joy, thoughtfully, "that he enjoys
one-half so well."

    The illustrious statesman, Champ Clark, once lived about a mile
from the village of Jebigue, in Missouri.  One day he rode into town
on a favorite mule, and, hitching the beast on the sunny side of a
street, in front of a saloon, he went inside in his character of
teetotaler, to apprise the barkeeper that wine is a mocker.  It was a
dreadfully hot day.  Pretty soon a neighbor came in and seeing Clark,
said:
    "Champ, it is not right to leave that mule out there in the sun.
He'll roast, sure! -- he was smoking as I passed him."
    "O, he's all right," said Clark, lightly; "he's an inveterate
smoker."
    The neighbor took a lemonade, but shook his head and repeated that
it was not right.
    He was a conspirator.  There had been a fire the night before:  a
stable just around the corner had burned and a number of horses had
put on their immortality, among them a young colt, which was roasted
to a rich nut-brown.  Some of the boys had turned Mr. Clark's mule
loose and substituted the mortal part of the colt.  Presently another
man entered the saloon.
    "For mercy's sake!" he said, taking it with sugar, "do remove that
mule, barkeeper:  it smells."
    "Yes," interposed Clark, "that animal has the best nose in
Missouri.  But if he doesn't mind, you shouldn't."
    In the course of human events Mr. Clark went out, and there,
apparently, lay the incinerated and shrunken remains of his charger.
The boys did not have any fun out of Mr. Clarke, who looked at the
body and, with the non-committal expression to which he owes so much
of his political preferment, went away.  But walking home late that
night he saw his mule standing silent and solemn by the wayside in the
misty moonlight.  Mentioning the name of Helen Blazes with uncommon
emphasis, Mr. Clark took the back track as hard as ever he could hook
it, and passed the night in town.

    General H.H. Wotherspoon, president of the Army War College, has a
pet rib-nosed baboon, an animal of uncommon intelligence but
imperfectly beautiful.  Returning to his apartment one evening, the
General was surprised and pained to find Adam (for so the creature is
named, the general being a Darwinian) sitting up for him and wearing
his master's best uniform coat, epaulettes and all.
    "You confounded remote ancestor!" thundered the great strategist,
"what do you mean by being out of bed after naps? -- and with my coat
on!"
    Adam rose and with a reproachful look got down on all fours in the
manner of his kind and, scuffling across the room to a table, returned
with a visiting-card:  General Barry had called and, judging by an
empty champagne bottle and several cigar-stumps, had been hospitably
entertained while waiting.  The general apologized to his faithful
progenitor and retired.  The next day he met General Barry, who said:
    "Spoon, old man, when leaving you last evening I forgot to ask you
about those excellent cigars.  Where did you get them?"
    General Wotherspoon did not deign to reply, but walked away.
    "Pardon me, please," said Barry, moving after him; "I was joking
of course.  Why, I knew it was not you before I had been in the room
fifteen minutes."
%
SUCCESS

n. The one unpardonable sin against one's fellows. In literature, and
particularly in poetry, the elements of success are exceedingly simple,
and are admirably set forth in the following lines by the reverend Father
Gassalasca Jape, entitled, for some mysterious reason, "John A. Joyce."

    The bard who would prosper must carry a book,
        Do his thinking in prose and wear
    A crimson cravat, a far-away look
        And a head of hexameter hair.
    Be thin in your thought and your body'll be fat;
    If you wear your hair long you needn't your hat.
%
SUFFRAGE

n. Expression of opinion by means of a ballot. The right of suffrage
(which is held to be both a privilege and a duty) means, as commonly
interpreted, the right to vote for the man of another man's choice, and
is highly prized.  Refusal to do so has the bad name of "incivism." The
incivilian, however, cannot be properly arraigned for his crime, for
there is no legitimate accuser. If the accuser is himself guilty he has
no standing in the court of opinion; if not, he profits by the crime,
for A's abstention from voting gives greater weight to the vote of
B. By female suffrage is meant the right of a woman to vote as some man
tells her to. It is based on female responsibility, which is somewhat
limited. The woman most eager to jump out of her petticoat to assert her
rights is first to jump back into it when threatened with a switching
for misusing them.
%
SYCOPHANT

n. One who approaches Greatness on his belly so that he may not be
commanded to turn and be kicked. He is sometimes an editor.

    As the lean leech, its victim found, is pleased
    To fix itself upon a part diseased
    Till, its black hide distended with bad blood,
    It drops to die of surfeit in the mud,
    So the base sycophant with joy descries
    His neighbor's weak spot and his mouth applies,
    Gorges and prospers like the leech, although,
    Unlike that reptile, he will not let go.
    Gelasma, if it paid you to devote
    Your talent to the service of a goat,
    Showing by forceful logic that its beard
    Is more than Aaron's fit to be revered;
    If to the task of honoring its smell
    Profit had prompted you, and love as well,
    The world would benefit at last by you
    And wealthy malefactors weep anew --
    Your favor for a moment's space denied
    And to the nobler object turned aside.
    Is't not enough that thrifty millionaires
    Who loot in freight and spoliate in fares,
    Or, cursed with consciences that bid them fly
    To safer villainies of darker dye,
    Forswearing robbery and fain, instead,
    To steal (they call it "cornering") our bread
    May see you groveling their boots to lick
    And begging for the favor of a kick?
    Still must you follow to the bitter end
    Your sycophantic disposition's trend,
    And in your eagerness to please the rich
    Hunt hungry sinners to their final ditch?
    In Morgan's praise you smite the sounding wire,
    And sing hosannas to great Havemeyher!
    What's Satan done that him you should eschew?
    He too is reeking rich -- deducting _you_.
%
SYLLOGISM

n. A logical formula consisting of a major and a minor assumption and
an inconsequent. (See LOGIC.)
%
SYLPH

n. An immaterial but visible being that inhabited the air when the air was
an element and before it was fatally polluted with factory smoke, sewer
gas and similar products of civilization. Sylphs were allied to gnomes,
nymphs and salamanders, which dwelt, respectively, in earth, water and
fire, all now insalubrious. Sylphs, like fowls of the air, were male and
female, to no purpose, apparently, for if they had progeny they must have
nested in accessible places, none of the chicks having ever been seen.
%
SYMBOL

n. Something that is supposed to typify or stand for something else.
Many symbols are mere "survivals" -- things which having no longer any
utility continue to exist because we have inherited the tendency to make
them; as funereal urns carved on memorial monuments. They were once
real urns holding the ashes of the dead. We cannot stop making them,
but we can give them a name that conceals our helplessness.
%
SYMBOLIC

adj. Pertaining to symbols and the use and interpretation of symbols.

    They say 'tis conscience feels compunction;
    I hold that that's the stomach's function,
    For of the sinner I have noted
    That when he's sinned he's somewhat bloated,
    Or ill some other ghastly fashion
    Within that bowel of compassion.
    True, I believe the only sinner
    Is he that eats a shabby dinner.
    You know how Adam with good reason,
    For eating apples out of season,
    Was "cursed."  But that is all symbolic:
    The truth is, Adam had the colic.
                                                                  G.J.
%
