When a thing has been said, and said well, have no scruple. Take it and
copy it.
		-- Anatole France
%
What is a committee?  A group of the unwilling, picked from the unfit, to
do the unnecessary.
		-- Richard Harkness, The New York Times, 1960
%
Knowledge is of two kinds: we know a subject ourselves, or we know where
we can find information upon it.
		-- Samuel Johnson
			[ This applies so well to the WWW and is part
			of the reason I spend so much time on it. ]
%
Absence extinguishes small passions and increases great ones, as the
wind blows out a candle, and blows in a fire.
		-- De La Rochefoucauld.
%
If a woman has to choose between catching a fly ball and saving an infant's
life, she will choose to save the infant's life without even considering if
there are men on base.
		-- Dave Barry
%
Human beings, who are almost unique in having the ability to learn
from the experience of others, are also remarkable for their apparent
disinclination to do so.
		-- Douglas Adams, Last Chance to See
%
No man ever steps in the same river twice, for it's not the same river
and he's not the same man.
		-- Heraclitus
%
In a survey taken several years ago, all incoming freshman at MIT were
asked if they expected to graduate in the top half of their class.
Ninety-seven percent responded that they did.
%
Never wrestle with a pig. You both get dirty but only the pig enjoys it.
%
Once at a social gathering, Gladstone said to Disraeli, "I predict, Sir,
that you will die either by hanging or of some vile disease".  Disraeli
replied, "That all depends, sir, upon whether I embrace your principles or
your mistress."
	[actually, it was John Wilkes and some nameless MP, a
	generation or two ahead of Gladstone and Disraeli. -- grs]
%
An Animated Cartoon Theology:
1. People are animals.
2. The body is mortal and subject to incredible pain.
3. Life is antagonistic to the living.
4. The flesh can be sawed, crushed, frozen, stretched, burned, bombed, and
   plucked for music.
5. The dumb are abused by the smart and the smart destroyed by their own
   cunning.
6. The small are tortured by the large and the large destroyed by their own
   momentum.
7. We are able to walk on air, but only as long as our illusion supports us.

		-- E. L. Doctorow, "The Book of Daniel"
%
On one occasion a student burst into his office.  "Professor Stigler, I
don't believe I deserve this F you've given me."  To which Stigler replied, "I
agree, but unfortunately it is the lowest grade the University will allow me to
award."
%
G: "If we do happen to step on a mine, Sir, what do we do?"
EB: "Normal procedure, Lieutenant, is to jump 200 feet in the air and
  scatter oneself over a wide area."
		-- Somewhere in No Man's Land, BA4
%
Another similarity is that Rush Limbaugh and Barney are both purple, or
would be if someone had the good sense to wrap some piano wire around Rush's
neck..
		-- from alt.barney.dinosaur.die.die.die
%
I hate to advocate drugs, alcohol, violence, or insanity to anyone, but
they've always worked for me.
		-- Hunter S. Thompson
%
I think you should defend to the death their right to march, and then go
down and meet them with baseball bats.
		-- Woody Allen, on the KKK
%
Q: What did the instructor at the school for Kamikazi pilots
   say to his students?
A: Watch closely.  I'm only going to do this once.
%
The only thing we have to fear is fear itself -- nameless, unreasoning,
unjustified terror which paralyzes needed efforts to convert retreat into
advance.
		-- Franklin D. Roosevelt, First Inaugural Address, Mar. 4, 1933
%
It is the mark of an educated mind to be able to entertain a thought
without accepting it.
		-- Aristotle
%
It's so much more friendly with two.
		-- "Pooh's Little Instruction Book", inspired by A. A. Milne
%
Slight not what's near through aiming at what's far.
		-- Euripides
%
All a man can betray is his conscience.
		-- Joseph Conrad
%
We cannot live only for ourselves. A thousand fibers connect us with our
fellow men; and among those fibers, as sympathetic threads, our actions
run as causes, and they come back to us as effects.
		-- Herman Melville
%
Love all, trust a few, do wrong to none.
		-- Shakespeare
%
To see what is right and not to do it, is want of courage.
		-- Confucius Analects
%
I don't wish to be everything to everyone, but I would like to be something
to someone.
		-- Javan
%
To fall in love is easy, even to remain in it is not difficult; our human
loneliness is cause enough. But it is a hard quest worth making to find a
comrade through whose steady presence one becomes steadily the person one
desires to be.
		-- Anna Louise Strong
%
The harder the conflict, the more glorious the triumph. What we obtain too
cheap, we esteem too lightly; it is dearness only that gives everything
its value. I love the man that can smile in trouble, that can gather
strength from distress and grow brave by reflection. 'Tis the business of
little minds to shrink; but he whose heart is firm, and whose conscience
approves his conduct, will pursue his principles unto death.
		-- Thomas Paine
%
Everybody wants to get old, but nobody wants to be old.
		-- Goethe
%
Be courteous to all, but intimate with few, and let those few be well
tried before you give them your confidence.  True friendship is a plant
of slow grow, and must undergo and withstand the shocks of adversity
before it is entitled to the appellation.
		-- George Washington
%
The best way to escape from a problem is to solve it.
		-- Alan Saporta
%
"I wasn't kidding.  I do have a test today.  It's on European Socialism."
"What's the big deal?  I'm not European.  I don't plan on becoming
	European.  So why should I care if they're socialists?	They could
	be facist, anarchist pigs.  It still wouldn't change the fact
	that I don't have a car."
		-- Ferris Bueller, "Ferris Bueller's Day Off"
%
Neither a borrower nor a lender be;
Neither a follower nor a leader be.
%
Computer : a million morons working at the speed of light.
		-- David Ferrier
%
Out the 10Base-T, through the router, down the T1, over the leased line,
off the bridge, past the firewall...nothing but Net.
%
I am Homer of Borg!  Prepare to be... Ooooooo! Donuts!
%
As your attorney, it is my duty to inform you that it is not important that
you understand what I'm doing or why you're paying me so much money.  What's
important is that you continue to do so.
		-- Hunter S. Thompson's Samoan attorney
%
The Soviet propaganda ministry ordered 10 million condoms from an American
manufacturer, all 16" long and 3" in diameter.  The American manufacturer
filled the order, sending the merchandise in boxes marked 'medium.'
%
Music I heard with you was more than music, and bread I broke with you
was more than bread.  Now that I am without you, all is desolate; all
that was once so beautiful is dead.
		-- Conrad Aiken
%
Signore Gaspare replied: 'And what do you say about the game of chess?'
'That is certainly a refined and ingenious recreation,' said Federico,
'but it seems to me to possess one defect; namely, that it is possible
for it to demand too much knowledge, so that anyone who wishes to become
an outstanding player must, I think, give to it as much time and study
as he would to learning some noble science or performing well something
or other of importance; and yet for all his pains when all is said and
done all he knows is a game.  Therefore as far as chess is concerned we
reach what is a very rare conclusion: that mediocrity is more to be
praised than excellence.'
		-- Baldesar Castiglione,
			"Etiquette for Renaissance Gentlemen", 1528 A.D.
%
"KGB, most feared organisation on planet!" Purchaser flashes
his IRS ID.
"Hokay, KGB, second most feared organisation on planet!"
%
Survival kit contents check. In them you'll find: one 45 caliber automatic,
two boxes of ammunition, four days concentrated emergency rations, one drug
issue containing antibiotics, morphine, vitamin pills, pep pills, sleeping
pills, tranquilizer pills, one miniature combination Russian phrase book and
Bible, one hundred dollars in rubles, one hundred in gold, nine packs of
chewing gum, one issue of prophylactics, three lipsticks, three pairs of nylon
stockings. Shoot a fella' could have a pretty good weekend in Vegas with all
that stuff.
		-- Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying
			and Love the Bomb, spoken by Major T. J. "King" Kong
%
 Hullo? ... Ah ... Hello, Dm... ah ... Hello, Dmitri? ...  Listen, ah, I
can't hear too well. Do you suppose you could turn down the music just a
little? ... Oh-ho, that's much better. ... yeah ... ha ... yes ... Fine, I can
hear you now, Dmitri. ... Clear and plain and coming through fine. ... I'm
coming through fine, too, eh? ... Good, then ... well, then, as you say, we're
both coming trough fine. ... Good. ... Well, it's good that you're fine and
... and I'm fine. ... I agree with you, it's great to be fine. ...
a-ha-ha-ha-ha ... Now then, Dmitri, you know how we've always talked about the
possibility of something going wrong with the bomb. ... The *bomb*,
Dmitri. ... The *hydrogen* bomb! ... Well now, what happened is ... ah ... one
of our base commanders had a sort of ... well, he went a little funny in the
head ... you know ...  just a little ... funny. And, ah ... he went and did a
silly thing. ... Well, I'll tell you what he did. He ordered his planes ... to
attack your country... Ah... Well, let me finish, Dmitri. ... Let me finish,
Dmitri. ... Well listen, how do you think I feel about it?! ... Can you
*imagine* how I feel about it, Dmitri? ... Why do you think I'm calling? Just
to say hello? ... *Of course* I like to speak to you! ... *Of course* I like to
say hello! ... Not now, byt anytime, Dmitri. I'm just calling up to tell you
something terrible has happened... *It's* a friendly call. Of course it's a
friendly call. ... Listen, if it wasn't friendly ... you probably wouldn't have
even got it. ... They will *not* reach their targets for at least another
hour. ... I am ... I am possitive, Dmitri. ... Listen, I've been all over this
with your ambassador. It is not a trick. ... Well, I'll tell you. We'd like to
give your air staff a complete run-down on the targets, the flight plans, and
the defensive systems of the planes. ... Yes! I mean i-i-i-if we're unable to
recall the planes, then ... I'd say that, ah ... well, ah ... we're just gonna
have to help you destroy them, Dmitri. ... I know they're our boys. ... All
right, well listen now. Who should we call? ...  *Who* should we call, Dmitri?
The ... wha-whe, the People... you, sorry, you faded away there. ... The
People's Central Air Defense Headquarters. ... Where is that, Dmitri? ... In
Omsk. ... Right. ... Yes. ... Oh, you'll call them first, will you? ... Uh-hu
... Listen, do you happen to have the phone number on you, Dmitri?  ... Whe-ah,
what? I see, just ask for Omsk information. ... Ah-ah-eh-uhm-hm ... I'm sorry,
too, Dmitri. ...  I'm very sorry. ... *All right*, you're sorrier than I am,
but I am as sorry as well. ... I am as sorry as you are, Dmitri! Don't say that
you're [the] more sorry than I am, because I'm capable of being just as sorry
as you are.  ... So we're both sorry, all right?! ... All right. ...
		-- Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying
			and Love the Bomb, spoken by the US President to the
				Russian Premier over the Red phone.
%
After escaping from prison:
"We released ourselves on our own recognizance."
"What Evelle means to say is, we felt that the institution no longer had
 anything to offer us."
		-- Raising Arizona, spoken by Evelle and Gale
%
[Evelle picks up a pack of balloons.]
"Do these blow into funny shapes and all?"
"Well, no, unless round is funny."
		-- Raising Arizona, spoken by Evelle and the Grocer
%
"We figured there was too much happiness here for just the two of us,
 so we figured the next logical step was to have us a critter."
		-- Raising Arizona, spoken by H.I. McDonough
%
A good friend of mine used to say, "This is a very simple game. You
throw the ball, you catch the ball, you hit the ball. Sometimes you win,
sometimes you lose, sometimes it rains." Think about that for a while.
		-- Bull Durham, spoken by Ebby Calvin "Nuke" LaLoosh
%
"His brain has not only been washed, as they say... It has been dry cleaned."
		-- The Manchurian Candidate, spoken by Dr. Yen Lo
%
"Have at you!"
"You are indeed brave, sir knight, but the fight is mine."
"Oh, had enough eh?"
"Look, you stupid bastard. You've got no arms left!"
"Yes I have."
"Look!"
"Just a flesh wound!"
		-- Monty Python and the Holy Grail,
			spoken by the Black Knight and King Arthur
%
"Oh, king, eh? And how'd you get that? By exploiting the workers! By
hanging on to outdated imperialist dogma which perpetuates the economic
and social differences in our society."
		-- Monty Python and the Holy Grail, statement by Dennis
%
Arthur: "The Lady of the Lake, her arm clad in the purest shimmering silmite
held aloft Excalibur from the bosom of the water, signifying by divine
providence that I, Arthur, was to carry Excalibur. THAT is why I am
your king!"
Dennis interrupting: "Listen, strange women lyin' in ponds distributin' swords
is no basis for a system of government! Supreme executive power derives from a
mandate from the masses, not from some farcical aquatic ceremony!"
		-- Monty Python and the Holy Grail, statement by Dennis
%
"Oh, but you can't expect to wield supreme executive power just because some
watery tart threw a sword at you!"
"Oh but if I went 'round sayin' I was Emperor, just because some moistened bint
lobbed a scimitar at me, they'd put me away!"
		-- Monty Python and the Holy Grail, statement by Dennis
%
"We live in a bloody swamp. We need all the land we can get."
"But I don't like her."
"Don't like her? What's wrong with her. She's beautiful, she's
 rich, she's got huge ... tracts of land."
		-- Monty Python and the Holy Grail,
			spoken by the King of Swamp Castle and his son,
				Prince Herbert
%
Brian: "You have to be different!"
The Crowd: "Yes, we are all different!"
Small lonely voice: "I'm not different!"
		-- Monthy Python's "Life of Brian"
%
They all want me as a friend or a fuck. I'm worshiped at Westerburg and
I'm only a junior.
		-- Heathers, spoken by Heather Chandler
%
There's not a day goes by I don't feel regret. Not because I'm in here;
because you think I should. I look back on the way I was then then, a
young, stupid kid who committed that terrible crime. I want to talk to
him. I want to try and talk some sense to him, tell him the way things
are. But I can't. That kid's long gone and this old man is all that's
left. I got to live with that. Rehabilitated? It's just a bullshit
word. So you go on and stamp your form, sonny, and stop wasting my
time. Because to tell you the truth, I don't give a shit.
		-- The Shawshank Redemption, spoken by Red
%
I have to remind myself that some birds aren't meant to be caged. Their
feathers are just too bright. And when they fly away, the part of you that
knows it was a sin to lock them up DOES rejoice. Still, the place you live in
is that much more drab and empty that they're gone. I guess I just miss my
friend.
		-- The Shawshank Redemption, spoken by Red
%
"Do you think there really are people who can just go up and say, 'Hi, babe.
 Name's Charles. This is your lucky night'?"
"Well, if there are, they're not English."
		-- Four Weddings and a Funeral, spoken by Charles and Matthew
%
I offer a complete and utter retraction. The imputation was totally without
basis in fact and was in no way fair comment and was motivated purely by
malice, and I deeply regret any distress that my comments may have caused you
or your family, and I hereby undertake not to repeat any such slander at any
time in the future.
		-- A Fish Called Wanda, spoken by Archibald Leech
%
And I guess that was your accomplice in the woodchipper.
		-- Fargo, spoken by Marge Gunderson
%
