	AQUARIUS (Jan 20 - Feb 18)
You have an inventive mind and are inclined to be progressive.  You lie
a great deal.  On the other hand, you are inclined to be careless and
impractical, causing you to make the same mistakes over and over
again.  People think you are stupid.
%
       PISCES (Feb 19 - Mar 20)  
You have a vivid imagination and often think you are being followed by
the CIA or FBI.  You have minor influence over your associates, and
people resent you for flaunting your power.  You lack confidence and
are generally a coward.  Pisces people do terrible things to small
animals.
%
	ARIES (Mar 21 - Apr 19)
You are the pioneer type and hold most people in contempt.  You are
quick tempered, impatient, and scornful of advice.  You are not very
nice.
%
	TAURUS (Apr 20 - May 20)
You are practical and persistent.  You have a dogged determination and
work like hell.  Most people think you are stubborn and bull headed.
You are a Communist.
%
	GEMINI (May 21 - June 20)
You are a quick and intelligent thinker.  People like you because you
are bisexual.  However, you are inclined to expect too much for too
little.  This means you are cheap.  Geminis are known for committing
incest.
%
	LEO (July 23 - Aug 22)
Your determination and sense of humor will come to the fore.  Your ability
to laugh at adversity will be a blessing because you've got a day coming
you wouldn't believe.  As a matter of fact, if you can laugh at what
happens to you today, you've got a sick sense of humor.
%
	VIRGO (Aug 23 - Sept 22)
You are the logical type and hate disorder.  This nitpicking is
sickening to your friends.  You are cold and unemotional and sometimes
fall asleep while making love.  Virgos make good bus drivers.
%
	VIRGO (Aug 23 - Sept 22)
Learn something new today, like how to spell or how to count to ten
without using your fingers.  Be careful dressing this morning.  You may
be hit by a car later in the day and you wouldn't want to be taken to
the doctor's office in some of that old underwear you own.
%
	LIBRA (Sept 23 - Oct 22)
You are the artistic type and have a difficult time with reality.  If
you are a man, you are more than likely gay.  Chances for employment
and monetary gains are excellent.  Most Libra women are prostitutes.
All Libra people die of Venereal disease.
%
	SCORPIO (Oct 23 - Nov 21)
You are shrewd in business and cannot be trusted.  You will achieve the
pinnacle of success because of your total lack of ethics.  Most Scorpio
people are murdered.
%
	SAGITTARIUS (Nov 22 - Dec 21)
You are optimistic and enthusiastic.  You have a reckless tendency to
rely on luck since you lack talent.  The majority of Sagittarians are
drunks or dope fiends or both.  People laugh at you a great deal.
%
	CAPRICORN (Dec 23 - Jan 19)
You are conservative and afraid of taking risks.  You don't do much of
anything and are lazy.  There has never been a Capricorn of any
importance.  Capricorns should avoid standing still for too long as
they take root and become trees.
%
