We need the whole world as a friend.
		-- Herbert Hoover 
%
Friendship improves happiness and abates misery, by the doubling of our joy
and the dividing of our grief
	-- Cicero (B.C. 106-43)
%
Don't walk in front of me because I may not follow. Don't walk behind me
because I may not lead. Just walk beside me and be my friend.
		-- Anon. (sent in by Majesty3) 
%
How far we travel in life matters far less than those we meet along the way.
		-- Unknown (submitted by AV) 
%
Even the ability to hate demands a certain kind of friendship.
		-- FD Roosevelt 
%
The person who tries to live alone will not succeed as a human being. His
heart withers if it does not answer another heart. His mind shrinks away
if he hears only the echoes of his own thoughts and finds no other
inspiration.
		-- Pearl S. Buck
%
A true friend is someone who thinks that you are a good egg even though he
knows that you are slightly cracked.
		-- Bernard Meltzer
%
Friendship bridges the gap between what things are and what they could be.
		-- Roger Holmes 
%
True friendship brings sunshine to the shade, and shade to the sunshine.
		-- Thomas Burke 
%
Friendship is a horizon - which expands whenever we approach it.
		-- E.R. Hazlip 
%
A blessed thing it is for any man or woman to have a friend; one human soul
whom we can trust utterly; who knows the best and the worst of us, and who
loves us in spite of all our faults; who will speak the honest truth to us,
while the world flatters us to our face, and laughs at us behind our back;
who will give us counsel and reproof in the day of prosperity and self-conceit;
but who, again, will comfort and encourage us in the day of difficulty and
sorrow, when the world leaves us alone to fight our own battle as we can.
		-- Kingsley 
%
Even where the affections are not strongly moved by any superior excellence,
the companions of our childhood always possess a certain quality over our
minds which hardly any later friend can obtain.
		-- Mary Shelley
%
Nice guys have lots of friends
Then they fall and have none
They cry and wonder why
The friends you have when you're down
Are the only ones that matter
We have one thing in common
We have a lot less friends than we think
		-- Untitled, Rollins, "One From None" 
%
I value the friend who for me finds time on his calendar, but I cherish the
friend who for me does not consult his calendar.
		-- Robert Brault 
%
There are no rules for friendship. It must be left to itself. We cannot force
it any more than love.
		-- William Hazlitt 
%
Without friends, no one would want to live, even if he had all other goods.
		-- Aristotle 
%
The meeting of two personalities is like the contact of two chemical
substances: if there is any reaction, both are transformed.
		-- Carl Jung
%
What is a friend? A single soul dwelling in two bodies.
		-- Aristotle
%
We cannot tell the precise moment when friendship is formed. As in filling a
vessel drop by drop, there is at last a drop which makes it run over; so in a
series of kindnesses, there is at last one which makes the heart run over.
		-- James Boswell
%
The friend who can be silent with us in a moment of despair or confusion, who
can stay with us in an hour of grief and bereavement, who can tolerate not
knowing, not curing, not healing, and face us with the reality of our
powerlessness. That is the friend who cares.
		-- Henri Nouwen
%
Don't flatter yourself that friendship authorizes you to say disagreeable
things to your intimates. The nearer you come into relation with a person,
the more necessary do tact and courtesy become.
		-- Oliver Wendell Holmes
%
Flatter me, and I may not believe you.
Criticize me, and I may not like you.
Ignore me, and I may not forgive you.
Encourage me, and I may not forget you. 
		-- William Arthur 
%
Friendship with oneself is all-important, because without it one cannot be
friends with anyone else in the world.
		-- Eleanor Roosevelt
%
Silences make the real conversations between friends. Not the saying, but the
never needing to say is what counts.
		-- Margaret Lee Runbeck
%
IN TUNE
I don't remember when I first began
To call you "friend." One day, I only know,
The vague companionship that I'd seen grow
So imperceptibly, turned gold, and ran
In tune with all I'd thought, or dared to plan.
Since then, you've been to me like music, low,
Yet clear; a fire that throws its warm, bright glow
On me as on each woman, child, and man,
And common thing that lies within its rays;
You've been like wholesome food that stays the cry
Of hungry, groping minds; and like a star -
A self-sufficient star - you make me raise
My utmost being to a higher sky,
In tune, like you, with earth, yet wide, and far.
		-- Florence Steigerwalt
%
A friend hath the skill and observation of the best physician; the diligence
and vigilance of the best nurse; and the tenderness and patience of the best
mother.
		-- Clarendon
%
OLD FRIENDSHIP
Beautiful and rich is an old friendship,
Grateful to the touch as ancient ivory,
Smooth as aged wine, or sheen of tapestry
Where light has lingered, intimate and long.
Full of tears and warm is an old friendship
That asks no longer deeds of gallantry,
Or any deed at all - save that the friend shall be
Alive and breathing somewhere, like a song.
		-- Eunice Tietjens
%
I think the hardest part of being a woman is having women friends

I think the hardest part of being a woman is not being able to just be friends
with a man.
		-- How to Make an American Quilt
%
A friend may well be reckoned the masterpiece of nature.
		-- Ralph Waldo Emerson, "Friendship"
%
You walk with friends
So mysterious to me
I walk alone
That's the way I wanna be.
You don't know me, don't understand me
So don't try to be me.
		-- Glen Canyon Dam 
%
A friend is one that knows you as you are, understands where you have been,
accepts what you have become, and still, gently allows you to grow.
		-- William Shakespeare
%
A friend is someone who can sing you the song of your heart when you've
forgotten it.
		-- a card
%
When two people meet, there are really six people present. There is each
man as he sees himself, each man as he wants to be seen, and each man as
he really is.
		-- Michael de Saintamo
%
One can't complain. I have friends. Somebody spoke to me only yesterday.
		-- Eeyore from Winnie-the-Pooh by AA Milne
%
There are those who pass like ships in the night
Who meet for a moment, then sail out of sight
With never a backwards glance of regret
Folks we know briefly then quickly forget

Then there are those friends who sail together
through quiet waters and stormy weather
Helping each other through joy and through strife
And they are the kind that give meaning to life.
		-- Author unknown (submitted by Chiana)
%
No love, no friendship can cross the path of our destiny without leaving some
mark on it forever.
		-- Submitted by Kaycee
%
You said good friends are hard to come by, I laughed and bought you a beer
cause it's too corny to cry.
		--Indigo Girls
%
Piglet sidled up behind Pooh.
'Pooh,' he whispered.
'Yes, piglet?'
'Nothing,' said Piglet, taking Pooh's paw. 'I just wanted to be sure of you.'
		-- AA Milne
%
Oh the comfort, the inexpressible comfort of feeling safe with a person,
having neither to weigh thoughts nor measure words, but pouring them all
right out, just as they are - chaff and grain together - certain that a
faithful hand will take and sift them, keep what is worth keeping, and with
the breath of kindness blow the rest away.
		-- Dinah Mulock
%
Never shall I forget the days I spent with you. Continue to be my friend, as
you will always find me yours.
		-- Ludwig van Beethoven
%
Hello my friend, are you visible today?
You know I never knew that it could be so strange
		-- REM
%
I never make promises lightly, and there have been some that I've broken.
But I swear in the days still left we'll walk in fields of gold.
		-- Sting
%
Do everything. Love as much as you can...it may hurt but it helps us grow.
Give all you have...you may be poor but you will be content. Always forgive....
your heart can not afford not to. Teach what you know and learn what you
don't.....Stay open to all you can..But most importantly...............
Dream your dream and then capture it...
		-- Anonymous
%
Don't be dismayed at goodbyes. A farewell is necessary before you can meet
again. And meeting again, after moments or lifetimes, is certain for those
who are friends.
		--Richard Bach
%
I think it's true that we'll all been through some nasty weather. Let's
understand that we're here to handle things together. Got to keep looking
on to tomorrow. There's so much in life that's meant for you.
		-- Gloria, "Get on your Feet"
%
It is really amazing when two strangers become the best of friends but it is
really sad when the best of friends become two strangers.
		-- smp
%
Don't be afraid to be weak, don't be too proud to be strong, just look into
your heart my friend that will be the return to yourself, the return to
innocence, if you want then start to laugh, if you must then start to
cry, be yourself, don't hide, just believe in destiny. don't care what
people say, just follow your own way, don't give up and take the chance
to return to innocence.
		-- Enigma
%
If your lost you can look and you will find it time after time.
If you fall I will catch you I will be waiting time after time.
		-- Cindy Lauper, "Time After Time"
%
"You have been my friends," replied Charlotte, "that in itself is a
tremendous thing."
		-- E.B. White, "Charlotte's Web"
%
Men and women can't be friends because the sex part always gets in the way.
		-- When Harry Met Sally
%
Finally, though, the jerk noticed her and came over and said hello. You
should've seen the way they said hello. You'd have thought they hadn't seen
each other in twenty years. You'd have thought they'd taken baths in the same
bathtub or something when they were little kids. Old buddyroos. It was
nauseating. The funny part was, they probably met each other just once, at
some phony party.
		-- Catcher in the Rye
%
If tears could build a stairway,
and memories were a lane,
I would walk right up to heaven
to bring you home again.
No farewell words were spoken
no time to say goodbye
you were gone before I knew it,
and only God knows why.
My heart still aches in sadness
and secret tears still flow,
what it meant to lose you,
no one will ever know.
		-- Anonymous
%
